docs/docs-content/self-hosted-setup/palette/management-appliance/upload-packs.md, before:

:::danger

This has been split from the former
[Palette Management Appliance](https://docs.spectrocloud.com/enterprise-version/install-palette/palette-management-appliance/)
page.

:::

## Upload Packs to Palette

Follow the instructions to upload packs to your Palette instance. Packs are used to create
[cluster profiles](../../profiles/cluster-profiles/cluster-profiles.md) and deploy workload clusters in your
environment.

### Prerequisites

<PartialsComponent
  category="self-hosted"
  name="upload-packs-prereqs"
  edition="Palette"
  version="Palette"
  iso="Palette Enterprise"
  app="Palette Management Appliance"
/>

### Upload Packs

<PartialsComponent
  category="self-hosted"
  name="upload-packs-enablement"
  edition="Palette"
  version="Palette"
  iso="Palette Enterprise"
  app="Palette Management Appliance"
/>

### Validate

<PartialsComponent
  category="self-hosted"
  name="upload-packs-validate"
  edition="Palette"
  version="Palette"
  iso="Palette Enterprise"
  app="Palette Management Appliance"
/>

## (Optional) Upload Third Party Packs

Follow the instructions to upload the Third Party packs to your Palette instance. The Third Party packs contain
additional functionality and capabilities that enhance the Palette experience.

### Prerequisites

<PartialsComponent
  category="self-hosted"
  name="upload-third-party-packs-prereqs"
  edition="Palette"
  version="Palette"
  iso="Palette Enterprise"
  app="Palette Management Appliance"
/>

### Upload Packs

<PartialsComponent
  category="self-hosted"
  name="upload-third-party-packs-enablement"
  edition="Palette"
  version="Palette"
  iso="Palette Enterprise"
  app="Palette Management Appliance"
/>

### Validate

<PartialsComponent
  category="self-hosted"
  name="upload-third-party-packs-validate"
  edition="Palette"
  version="Palette"
  iso="Palette Enterprise"
  app="Palette Management Appliance"
/>

Commit message:

Link and metadata improvement for palette

docs/docs-content/self-hosted-setup/palette/management-appliance/upload-packs.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: "Upload Packs"
title: "Upgrade Packs to Self-Hosted Palette Installed with Management Appliance"
description: "Learn how to upgrade the Palette Management Appliance"
hide_table_of_contents: false
tags: ["management appliance", "self-hosted", "packs"]
sidebar_position: 60
---

:::danger

This has been split from the former
[Palette Management Appliance](https://docs.spectrocloud.com/enterprise-version/install-palette/palette-management-appliance/)
page.

:::

## Upload Packs to Palette

Follow the instructions to upload packs to your Palette instance. Packs are used to create
[cluster profiles](../../../profiles/cluster-profiles/cluster-profiles.md) and deploy workload clusters in your
environment.

### Prerequisites

<PartialsComponent
  category="self-hosted"
  name="upload-packs-prereqs"
  edition="Palette"
  version="Palette"
  iso="Palette Enterprise"
  app="Palette Management Appliance"
/>

### Upload Packs

<PartialsComponent
  category="self-hosted"
  name="upload-packs-enablement"
  edition="Palette"
  version="Palette"
  iso="Palette Enterprise"
  app="Palette Management Appliance"
/>

### Validate

<PartialsComponent
  category="self-hosted"
  name="upload-packs-validate"
  edition="Palette"
  version="Palette"
  iso="Palette Enterprise"
  app="Palette Management Appliance"
/>

## (Optional) Upload Third Party Packs

Follow the instructions to upload the Third Party packs to your Palette instance. The Third Party packs contain
additional functionality and capabilities that enhance the Palette experience.

### Prerequisites

<PartialsComponent
  category="self-hosted"
  name="upload-third-party-packs-prereqs"
  edition="Palette"
  version="Palette"
  iso="Palette Enterprise"
  app="Palette Management Appliance"
/>

### Upload Packs

<PartialsComponent
  category="self-hosted"
  name="upload-third-party-packs-enablement"
  edition="Palette"
  version="Palette"
  iso="Palette Enterprise"
  app="Palette Management Appliance"
/>

### Validate

<PartialsComponent
  category="self-hosted"
  name="upload-third-party-packs-validate"
  edition="Palette"
  version="Palette"
  iso="Palette Enterprise"
  app="Palette Management Appliance"
/>
