docs/docs-content/palette-cli/commands/validator.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: "Validator"
title: "Validator"
description: "Reference resource for the validator command."
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 50
tags: ["palette-cli"]
---


The Palette CLI has built-in support for the open-source [Validator](https://github.com/spectrocloud-labs/validator) framework and its plugins ecosystem. You can use the Validator to verify your environment is ready for an installation of self-hosted Palette, VerteX, or for deployment of Kubernetes clusters through Palette. 



The `validator` command exposes the following subcommands.

- [`install`](#install) - Install the Validator framework and configure Validator plugins.

- [`uninstall`](#uninstall) - Uninstall the Validator framework and remove all sValidator plugins.


## Prerequisites

The Validator requires the following dependencies.

- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker) - The Validator requires Docker. 

:::caution
Credentials and other permissions may be required depending on the Validator plugins you use. For example, the AWS plugin requires AWS credentials with elevated permissions to validate your AWS environment. Refer to the [Validator](https://github.com/spectrocloud-labs/validator) GitHub repository for more information about the Validator and its plugins.
:::

## Install

Use the `install` subcommand to install the Validator framework and configure Validator plugins. An interactive wizard will guide you through the installation process. You can also use a configuration file to install the Validator. 


:::info

A [kind](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/) cluster will be deployed as part of the Validator installation. The name of the kind cluster is `validator-kind-cluster`. You can find the `kind` binary installed in the `$HOME/.palette/bin` directory. 

:::


The `install` subcommand accepts the following flags.

| **Short Flag** | **Long Flag**  | **Description**  | **Type**    |
|-|----------|------------------|-------------|
| `-f` |`--config-file` | Install the Validator using a configuration file (optional). Provide the file path to the configuration file. | string |
| `-o` |`--config-only` | Generate a configuration file without proceeding with an actual installat. Default: false| bool |
| `-h` |`--help`| Help with any command. | - |

### Examples

Below are some examples of using the `install` subcommand and its supported workflows.

Interactive Install

```shell
palette validator install
```

Install using a configuration file

```shell
palette validator install \
--config-file /Users/demo/.palette/validator/validator-20231109135306/validator.yaml
```

Generate a configuration file without proceeding with an actual installation

```shell
palette validator install --config-only
```


### Configuration Files

After the install wizard completes, the Validator will generate a configuration file. You can use this configuration file to install the Validator in the future. You also need this configuration file to uninstall the Validator.

The configuration file will be located in the `$HOME/.palette/validator` directory. The configuration file will be named `validator.yaml`.

The install output will display the location of the configuration file. In the example below, the configuration file is located at `/Users/demo/.palette/validator/validator-20231109135306/validator.yaml`. The output is truncated for brevity.

```shell hideClipboard {1,11}
validator configuration file saved: /Users/demo/.palette/validator/validator-20231109135306/validator.yaml
Creating cluster "validator-kind-cluster" ...
 ✓ Ensuring node image (kindest/node:v1.24.7) 🖼
 • Preparing nodes 📦   ...
 • Writing configuration 📜  ...
 ✓ Starting control-plane 🕹️
 • Installing CNI 🔌  ...
 ✓ Installing StorageClass 💾
Set kubectl context to "kind-validator-kind-cluster"
You can now use your cluster with:
kubectl cluster-info --context kind-validator-kind-cluster --kubeconfig /Users/demo/.palette/validator/validator-20231109135306/kind-cluster.kubeconfig
```

The kubeconfig file to the kind cluster will also be located in the `$HOME/.palette/validator` directory. The kubeconfig file will be named `kind-cluster.kubeconfig`. The exact location of the kubeconfig file will be displayed in the install output.


### Review Validation Results

The Validator will generate a report after the validation process is complete. All validations are stored as a Custom Resourced Definition (CRD) in the `validator` namespace. Each plugin you specified in the installation process will have its own CRD. Additionaly, the Validator will create a CRD containing all the validation results, and the Validator configurations. 

Below is an example output of the CRDs created by the Validator after a successful validation process. Two plugins were used in this example, the `aws` plugin and the `network` plugin


```shell hideClipboard
NAME                                             CREATED AT
awsvalidators.validation.spectrocloud.labs       2023-11-09T21:02:41Z
networkvalidators.validation.spectrocloud.labs   2023-11-09T21:02:45Z
validationresults.validation.spectrocloud.labs   2023-11-09T21:02:12Z
validatorconfigs.validation.spectrocloud.labs    2023-11-09T21:02:12Z
```

You can use the `kubectl` command to view the validation results. To review all the results collectively, use the `describe` command to display the `validationresults` CRD. 

```shell
kubectl describe validationresults --namespace validator
```

```yaml
Name:         validator-plugin-aws-aws-validator-spectro-cloud-base
Namespace:    validator
Labels:       <none>
Annotations:  <none>
API Version:  validation.spectrocloud.labs/v1alpha1
Kind:         ValidationResult
Metadata:
  Creation Timestamp:  2023-11-09T21:03:14Z
  Generation:          1
  Resource Version:    721
  UID:                 766f0465-8867-48e9-89e5-a6f819795b17
Spec:
  Plugin:  AWS
Status:
  Conditions:
    Failures:
      v1alpha1.IamRoleRule SpectroCloudRole missing action(s): [s3:DeleteObject s3:PutBucketOwnershipControls s3:PutBucketPolicy s3:PutBucketPublicAccessBlock s3:PutObjectAcl s3:PutObject] for resource arn:*:s3:::* from policy Controllers Policy
    Last Validation Time:  2023-11-09T21:03:14Z
    Message:               One or more required IAM permissions was not found, or a condition was not met
    Status:                False
    Validation Rule:       validation-SpectroCloudRole
    Validation Type:       aws-iam-role-policy
  State:                   Failed
Events:                    <none>


Name:         validator-plugin-aws-validator-plugin-aws
Namespace:    validator
Labels:       <none>
Annotations:  <none>
API Version:  validation.spectrocloud.labs/v1alpha1
Kind:         ValidationResult
Metadata:
  Creation Timestamp:  2023-11-09T21:03:12Z
  Generation:          1
  Resource Version:    713
  UID:                 73e2f1c6-feb0-493b-bf8a-161e662e02b5
Spec:
  Plugin:  AWS
Status:
  Conditions:
    Details:
      EC2-VPC Elastic IPs: quota: 10, buffer: 5, max. usage: 0, max. usage entity: us-east-1
    Last Validation Time:  2023-11-09T21:03:12Z
    Message:               Usage for all service quotas is below specified buffer
    Status:                True
    Validation Rule:       validation-ec2
    Validation Type:       aws-service-quota
  State:                   Succeeded
Events:                    <none>


Name:         validator-plugin-aws-validator-plugin-network
Namespace:    validator
Labels:       <none>
Annotations:  <none>
API Version:  validation.spectrocloud.labs/v1alpha1
Kind:         ValidationResult
Metadata:
  Creation Timestamp:  2023-11-09T21:03:12Z
  Generation:          1
  Resource Version:    734
  UID:                 256006fb-5729-4b44-a4e1-58b7d32068b9
Spec:
  Plugin:  Network
Status:
  Conditions:
    Details:
      nc [-w 3 google.com 443] succeeded
    Last Validation Time:  2023-11-09T21:03:17Z
    Status:                True
    Validation Rule:       default
    Validation Type:       network-tcp-conn
  State:                   Failed
Events:                    <none>
```
#### Success

The `State` field in the `Status` section of the `ValidationResult` CRD will indicate if the validation was successful or not. If the validation was successful, the `State` field will be set to `Succeeded`. 

In the example below, the `State` field is set to `Succeeded` for the `validator-plugin-aws-validator-plugin-aws` CRD. This check was successful because the usage for all service quotas is below the specified buffer. The output is truncated for brevity.

```yaml hideClipboard {12}
Name:         validator-plugin-aws-validator-plugin-aws
...
Status:
  Conditions:
    Details:
      EC2-VPC Elastic IPs: quota: 10, buffer: 5, max. usage: 0, max. usage entity: us-east-1
    Last Validation Time:  2023-11-09T21:03:12Z
    Message:               Usage for all service quotas is below specified buffer
    Status:                True
    Validation Rule:       validation-ec2
    Validation Type:       aws-service-quota
  State:                   Succeeded
```

#### Fail

If the validation was not successful, the `State` field will be set to `Failed`. The `Conditions.Failures` section will contain additional information about the failure. In this example, several IAM permissions are missing for the `SpectroCloudRole` IAM role. The output is truncated for brevity.


```yaml hideClipboard {6,8,12}
Name:         validator-plugin-aws-aws-validator-spectro-cloud-base
...
Status:
  Conditions:
    Failures:
      v1alpha1.IamRoleRule SpectroCloudRole missing action(s): [s3:DeleteObject s3:PutBucketOwnershipControls s3:PutBucketPolicy s3:PutBucketPublicAccessBlock s3:PutObjectAcl s3:PutObject] for resource arn:*:s3:::* from policy Controllers Policy
    Last Validation Time:  2023-11-09T21:03:14Z
    Message:               One or more required IAM permissions was not found, or a condition was not met
    Status:                False
    Validation Rule:       validation-SpectroCloudRole
    Validation Type:       aws-iam-role-policy
  State:                   Failed
```

Use the error output to help you address the failure. In this example, the user needs to add the missing IAM permissions to the `SpectroCloudRole` IAM role. Other failures may require you to update your environment to meet the validation requirements.

## Uninstall

Use the `uninstall` subcommand to uninstall the Validator framework and remove all Validator plugins. To remove the Validator, you must specify the `--config-file` flag.

The `uninstall` subcommand accepts the following flags.

| **Short Flag** | **Long Flag**  | **Description**  | **Type**    |
|-|----------|------------------|-------------|
| `-f` |`--config-file` | Uninstall the Validator using a configuration file (required). Provide the file path to the configuration file. | string |
| `-d` |`--delete-cluster` | Delete the Validator kind cluster. Does not apply if using a preexisting K8s cluster. Default: true. | bool |
| `-h` |`--help`| Help with any command. | - |


### Examples

Remove the Validator, its plugins, and the kind cluster.

```shell
palette validator uninstall  \
--config-file /Users/demo/.palette/validator/validator-20231109135306/validator.yaml \
--delete-cluster
```

Remove the Validator, its plugins, but not the kind cluster.

```shell
palette validator uninstall  \
--config-file /Users/demo/.palette/validator/validator-20231109135306/validator.yaml \
--delete-cluster=false
```

Commit message:

docs: added dubg tips table

docs/docs-content/palette-cli/commands/validator.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: "Validator"
title: "Validator"
description: "Reference resource for the validator command."
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 50
tags: ["palette-cli"]
---


The Palette CLI has built-in support for the open-source [Validator](https://github.com/spectrocloud-labs/validator) framework and its plugins ecosystem. You can use the Validator to verify your environment is ready for an installation of self-hosted Palette, VerteX, or for deployment of Kubernetes clusters through Palette. 



The `validator` command exposes the following subcommands.

- [`install`](#install) - Install the Validator framework and configure Validator plugins.

- [`uninstall`](#uninstall) - Uninstall the Validator framework and remove all sValidator plugins.


## Prerequisites

The Validator requires the following dependencies.

- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker) - The Validator requires Docker. 

:::caution
Credentials and other permissions may be required depending on the Validator plugins you use. For example, the AWS plugin requires AWS credentials with elevated permissions to validate your AWS environment. Refer to the [Validator](https://github.com/spectrocloud-labs/validator) GitHub repository for more information about the Validator and its plugins.
:::

## Install

Use the `install` subcommand to install the Validator framework and configure Validator plugins. An interactive wizard will guide you through the installation process. You can also use a configuration file to install the Validator. 


:::info

A [kind](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/) cluster will be deployed as part of the Validator installation. The name of the kind cluster is `validator-kind-cluster`. You can find the `kind` binary installed in the `$HOME/.palette/bin` directory. 

:::


The `install` subcommand accepts the following flags.

| **Short Flag** | **Long Flag**  | **Description**  | **Type**    |
|-|----------|------------------|-------------|
| `-f` |`--config-file` | Install the Validator using a configuration file (optional). Provide the file path to the configuration file. | string |
| `-o` |`--config-only` | Generate a configuration file without proceeding with an actual installat. Default: false| bool |
| `-h` |`--help`| Help with any command. | - |

### Examples

Below are some examples of using the `install` subcommand and its supported workflows.

Interactive Install

```shell
palette validator install
```

Install using a configuration file

```shell
palette validator install \
--config-file /Users/demo/.palette/validator/validator-20231109135306/validator.yaml
```

Generate a configuration file without proceeding with an actual installation

```shell
palette validator install --config-only
```


### Configuration Files

After the install wizard completes, the Validator will generate a configuration file. You can use this configuration file to install the Validator in the future. You also need this configuration file to uninstall the Validator.

The configuration file will be located in the `$HOME/.palette/validator` directory. The configuration file will be named `validator.yaml`.

The install output will display the location of the configuration file. In the example below, the configuration file is located at `/Users/demo/.palette/validator/validator-20231109135306/validator.yaml`. The output is truncated for brevity.

```shell hideClipboard {1,11}
validator configuration file saved: /Users/demo/.palette/validator/validator-20231109135306/validator.yaml
Creating cluster "validator-kind-cluster" ...
 ✓ Ensuring node image (kindest/node:v1.24.7) 🖼
 • Preparing nodes 📦   ...
 • Writing configuration 📜  ...
 ✓ Starting control-plane 🕹️
 • Installing CNI 🔌  ...
 ✓ Installing StorageClass 💾
Set kubectl context to "kind-validator-kind-cluster"
You can now use your cluster with:
kubectl cluster-info --context kind-validator-kind-cluster --kubeconfig /Users/demo/.palette/validator/validator-20231109135306/kind-cluster.kubeconfig
```

The kubeconfig file to the kind cluster will also be located in the `$HOME/.palette/validator` directory. The kubeconfig file will be named `kind-cluster.kubeconfig`. The exact location of the kubeconfig file will be displayed in the install output.


### Review Validation Results

The Validator will generate a report after the validation process is complete. All validations are stored as a Custom Resourced Definition (CRD) in the `validator` namespace. Each plugin you specified in the installation process will have its own CRD. Additionaly, the Validator will create a CRD containing all the validation results, and the Validator configurations. 


:::tip

The kind cluster's kubeconfig file will be located in the `$HOME/.palette/validator` directory. The kubeconfig file will be named `kind-cluster.kubeconfig`. The exact location is displayed in the install output. You can use this kubeconfig file to access the kind cluster and view the CRDs.

Example - `/Users/demo/.palette/validator/validator-20231109135306/kind-cluster.kubeconfig`

:::


Below is an example output of the CRDs created by the Validator after a successful validation process. Two plugins were used in this example, the `aws` plugin and the `network` plugin


```shell hideClipboard
NAME                                             CREATED AT
awsvalidators.validation.spectrocloud.labs       2023-11-09T21:02:41Z
networkvalidators.validation.spectrocloud.labs   2023-11-09T21:02:45Z
validationresults.validation.spectrocloud.labs   2023-11-09T21:02:12Z
validatorconfigs.validation.spectrocloud.labs    2023-11-09T21:02:12Z
```

You can use the `kubectl` command to view the validation results. To review all the results collectively, use the `describe` command to display the `validationresults` CRD. 

```shell
kubectl describe validationresults --namespace validator
```

```yaml
Name:         validator-plugin-aws-aws-validator-spectro-cloud-base
Namespace:    validator
Labels:       <none>
Annotations:  <none>
API Version:  validation.spectrocloud.labs/v1alpha1
Kind:         ValidationResult
Metadata:
  Creation Timestamp:  2023-11-09T21:03:14Z
  Generation:          1
  Resource Version:    721
  UID:                 766f0465-8867-48e9-89e5-a6f819795b17
Spec:
  Plugin:  AWS
Status:
  Conditions:
    Failures:
      v1alpha1.IamRoleRule SpectroCloudRole missing action(s): [s3:DeleteObject s3:PutBucketOwnershipControls s3:PutBucketPolicy s3:PutBucketPublicAccessBlock s3:PutObjectAcl s3:PutObject] for resource arn:*:s3:::* from policy Controllers Policy
    Last Validation Time:  2023-11-09T21:03:14Z
    Message:               One or more required IAM permissions was not found, or a condition was not met
    Status:                False
    Validation Rule:       validation-SpectroCloudRole
    Validation Type:       aws-iam-role-policy
  State:                   Failed
Events:                    <none>


Name:         validator-plugin-aws-validator-plugin-aws
Namespace:    validator
Labels:       <none>
Annotations:  <none>
API Version:  validation.spectrocloud.labs/v1alpha1
Kind:         ValidationResult
Metadata:
  Creation Timestamp:  2023-11-09T21:03:12Z
  Generation:          1
  Resource Version:    713
  UID:                 73e2f1c6-feb0-493b-bf8a-161e662e02b5
Spec:
  Plugin:  AWS
Status:
  Conditions:
    Details:
      EC2-VPC Elastic IPs: quota: 10, buffer: 5, max. usage: 0, max. usage entity: us-east-1
    Last Validation Time:  2023-11-09T21:03:12Z
    Message:               Usage for all service quotas is below specified buffer
    Status:                True
    Validation Rule:       validation-ec2
    Validation Type:       aws-service-quota
  State:                   Succeeded
Events:                    <none>


Name:         validator-plugin-aws-validator-plugin-network
Namespace:    validator
Labels:       <none>
Annotations:  <none>
API Version:  validation.spectrocloud.labs/v1alpha1
Kind:         ValidationResult
Metadata:
  Creation Timestamp:  2023-11-09T21:03:12Z
  Generation:          1
  Resource Version:    734
  UID:                 256006fb-5729-4b44-a4e1-58b7d32068b9
Spec:
  Plugin:  Network
Status:
  Conditions:
    Details:
      nc [-w 3 google.com 443] succeeded
    Last Validation Time:  2023-11-09T21:03:17Z
    Status:                True
    Validation Rule:       default
    Validation Type:       network-tcp-conn
  State:                   Failed
Events:                    <none>
```
#### Success

The `State` field in the `Status` section of the `ValidationResult` CRD will indicate if the validation was successful or not. If the validation was successful, the `State` field will be set to `Succeeded`. 

In the example below, the `State` field is set to `Succeeded` for the `validator-plugin-aws-validator-plugin-aws` CRD. This check was successful because the usage for all service quotas is below the specified buffer. The output is truncated for brevity.

```yaml hideClipboard {12}
Name:         validator-plugin-aws-validator-plugin-aws
...
Status:
  Conditions:
    Details:
      EC2-VPC Elastic IPs: quota: 10, buffer: 5, max. usage: 0, max. usage entity: us-east-1
    Last Validation Time:  2023-11-09T21:03:12Z
    Message:               Usage for all service quotas is below specified buffer
    Status:                True
    Validation Rule:       validation-ec2
    Validation Type:       aws-service-quota
  State:                   Succeeded
```

#### Fail

If the validation was not successful, the `State` field will be set to `Failed`. The `Conditions.Failures` section will contain additional information about the failure. In this example, several IAM permissions are missing for the `SpectroCloudRole` IAM role. The output is truncated for brevity.


```yaml hideClipboard {6,8,12}
Name:         validator-plugin-aws-aws-validator-spectro-cloud-base
...
Status:
  Conditions:
    Failures:
      v1alpha1.IamRoleRule SpectroCloudRole missing action(s): [s3:DeleteObject s3:PutBucketOwnershipControls s3:PutBucketPolicy s3:PutBucketPublicAccessBlock s3:PutObjectAcl s3:PutObject] for resource arn:*:s3:::* from policy Controllers Policy
    Last Validation Time:  2023-11-09T21:03:14Z
    Message:               One or more required IAM permissions was not found, or a condition was not met
    Status:                False
    Validation Rule:       validation-SpectroCloudRole
    Validation Type:       aws-iam-role-policy
  State:                   Failed
```

Use the error output to help you address the failure. In this example, the user needs to add the missing IAM permissions to the `SpectroCloudRole` IAM role. Other failures may require you to update your environment to meet the validation requirements.


#### Resolve Failures

Each plugin may have its own set of failures. Resolving failures will depend on the plugin and the failure. Use the error output to help you address the failure. Below are some tips to help you resolve failures. 

| **Plugin** | **Failure Scenario**  | **Guidance**  |
|-|----------|------------------|
| AWS | Missing IAM permissions| The IAM role used by Palette is missing one or more required IAM permissions. Refer to [Required IAM Policies](../../clusters/public-cloud/aws/required-iam-policies.md) for a comprehensive list of required IAM permissions and attach the missing permissions or policies. |
| AWS | Insufficient Service Quota Buffer | The usage quota for a service or multiple service quotas is above the specified buffer. Refer to AWS [Service Quotas](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/aws-service-information.html) documentation to review the default limits. Use the [Service Quotas](https://console.aws.amazon.com/servicequotas/) console to request an increase to your account, or remove resources to reduce the usage. |  
| Network | TCP connection error | The Validator was unable to establish a TCP connection to the specified host and port. Ensure the host and port are accessible from the Validator's current network. If the current network is not in scope, then ensure you conduct the test from a network that is in scope. Refer to the [Network Ports](../../architecture/networking-ports.md) resource for a list of Palette required ports. | 
| Network| Unable to connect | This could be caused by several issues. If you require network connections to use a proxy server, specify the usagage of a network proxy and provide the required proxy server information. |
| Network | Unable to resolve DNS | The Validator was unable to resolve the specified DNS name. Ensure the DNS name is valid and accessible from the Validator's current network default DNS resolver. Use network tools such as `dig` and `nslookup` to debug DNS issues. |
| Network | Insufficient IP Addresses | The Validator was unable to find a sufficient number of IP addresses in the specified IP range. Ensure the IP range is valid and has enough IP addresses to satisfy the Validator's requirements.  Discuss these findings with your network administrator. |
| vSphere| Missing permissions | The user account used by Palette or VerteX is missing one or more required permissions. Refer to [Palette Required vSphere Permissions](../../enterprise-version/install-palette/install-on-vmware/vmware-system-requirements.md#vsphere-permissions), or the [VerteX Required vSphere Permissions](../../vertex/install-palette-vertex/install-on-vmware/vmware-system-requirements.md#vsphere-permissions) resource for information about required permissions. |

## Uninstall

Use the `uninstall` subcommand to uninstall the Validator framework and remove all Validator plugins. To remove the Validator, you must specify the `--config-file` flag.

The `uninstall` subcommand accepts the following flags.

| **Short Flag** | **Long Flag**  | **Description**  | **Type**    |
|-|----------|------------------|-------------|
| `-f` |`--config-file` | Uninstall the Validator using a configuration file (required). Provide the file path to the configuration file. | string |
| `-d` |`--delete-cluster` | Delete the Validator kind cluster. Does not apply if using a preexisting K8s cluster. Default: true. | bool |
| `-h` |`--help`| Help with any command. | - |


### Examples

Remove the Validator, its plugins, and the kind cluster.

```shell
palette validator uninstall  \
--config-file /Users/demo/.palette/validator/validator-20231109135306/validator.yaml \
--delete-cluster
```

Remove the Validator, its plugins, but not the kind cluster.

```shell
palette validator uninstall  \
--config-file /Users/demo/.palette/validator/validator-20231109135306/validator.yaml \
--delete-cluster=false
```
