---
title: "SSH Keys"
metaTitle: "create and manage an SSH key for a Spectro User Account"
metaDescription: "create and manage an SSH key for a Spectro User Account
"
hideToC: false
fullWidth: false
---

import Tabs from 'shared/components/ui/Tabs';
import WarningBox from 'shared/components/WarningBox';
import InfoBox from 'shared/components/InfoBox';
import PointsOfInterest from 'shared/components/common/PointOfInterest';

# Overview
Palette supports SSH (Secure Shell) to establish, administer, and communicate with remote clusters. This section describes creating and managing SSH Keys in the Palette Management Console.

## Scope of your SSH Key
Palette groups clusters for logical separation into **Projects**. Users and teams can be assigned roles within a project for granular control over permissions within the project scope. SSH key authentication is scoped to a project. Multiple users can be given access to a single project, however in order for them to gain access to clusters via SSH, they will need to have a public SSH key registered for each user.

# Linking the Tenant SSH Key with Palette Management Console

Before you begin, generate an SSH key pair. We recommend using the RSA (Rivest-Shamir-Adleman) public-key cryptosystem to initiate a secure handshake between remote clusters for every cloud, data center, and edge environment supported by Palette.

The steps to link the tenant SSH Key to Palette Management Console are as follows:
1. Log in to a Palette console, go to the left-hand side, and from the ribbon menu select **Project Settings**.
2. From the Project Settings button, select the **SSH Keys** tab.
3. Open the **+Add New SSH Key** tab to complete the Add Key form as below:
	* **Name**: Provide a unique name for the SSH key.
	* **SSH Key**: Paste in the SSH public key contents from the key pair generated earlier.
4. Click **Confirm** to complete the wizard.

**Note**: SSH keys can be edited and deleted later by using the kebab menu to the right of each key.

# Applying SSH keys

SSH keys loaded into the project can be used by associating them with clusters during cluster creation. 
	
Users can associate multiple SSH keys to a single project, however only one SSH key can be applied to a single cluster.

