---
title: "Kubeconfig"
metaTitle: "Kubeconfig"
metaDescription: "Learn how the to find the kubeconfig file for your cluster and how permissions are managed."
hideToC: false
fullWidth: false
---

import Tabs from 'shared/components/ui/Tabs';
import WarningBox from 'shared/components/WarningBox';
import InfoBox from 'shared/components/InfoBox';


# Overview

A [kubeconfig](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/organize-cluster-access-kubeconfig/) file is a configuration file used to access a Kubernetes cluster. It contains information such as the cluster's API server address, authentication credentials, and cluster-specific settings. The kubeconfig file allows you to authenticate and interact with the cluster using the kubectl CLI or other Kubernetes client tools.


The kubeconfig file plays a crucial role in enabling you and other users to issue kubectl commands against the host cluster. It ensures that you have the necessary permissions and access to the cluster's resources. By using the kubeconfig file, you can validate your access to the host cluster and perform various operations, such as deploying applications, managing resources, and monitoring the cluster.

Overall, the kubeconfig file serves as a key component in connecting and interacting with a Kubernetes cluster, providing you with the necessary configuration and credentials to access the cluster's API server.


You can download the kubeconfig file from the cluster details page in Palette. You can then set the `KUBECONFIG` environment variable to the file path of the kubeconfig file in your terminal window. 

<br />

```bash hideClipboard
export KUBECONFIG=~/Downloads/dev-cluster.kubeconfig 
```

Refer to the [Access Cluster with CLI](/clusters/cluster-management/palette-webctl) guide for steps on how to connect to your host cluster with the kubectl CLI.

# Kubeconfig Access Permissions

Palette exposes the kubeconfig file for each cluster deployed through Palette. Depending on the cluster's configuration the kubeconfig file may contain different configurations such as the cluster's API server address and authentication credentials. 

Your assigned [Palette permissions](/user-management/palette-rbac/project-scope-roles-permissions) determine which clusters you can access and what operations you can perform on the cluster. The permissions assigned to you in Palette determine if you can download and access the kubeconfig file for a cluster. 

As a rule of thumb, users with the Palette project role [*Cluster Admin*](/user-management/palette-rbac/project-scope-roles-permissions#cluster) can access the kubeconfig file for all clusters in the project. Users with lower-level project roles such as the  *Cluster Editor* or the *Cluster Viewer* may not be able to access the kubeconfig file of the cluster. 

<br />

<InfoBox>

Palette has its own RBAC system that is separate from the [Kubernetes RBAC](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/) system in the host cluster. The permissions assigned to you in Palette determine what operations you can perform on the cluster. The permissions assigned to you in the host cluster, through the Kubernetes RBAC system, determine what operations you can perform on the cluster's resources. Refer to the [Palette Roles and Kubernetes Roles](/clusters/cluster-management/cluster-rbac#paletterolesandkubernetesroles) for additional information.

</InfoBox>

Use the following tables to help you identify what project role you need to access the kubeconfig file for a cluster. 


### Cluster Admin

If a custom Palette resource role is created and used instead of the Palette role *Cluster Admin*. The custom Palette resource role must have the *delete* permissions for the resource key *cluster* to access the kubeconfig file for a cluster.


| **Project Role** | **OIDC Configured** | **Spectro Proxy Enabled** | **Access Kubeconfig File** | 
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Cluster Admin | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ |
| Cluster Admin | ❌ | ✅ | ✅ |
| Cluster Admin | ✅ | ❌ | ✅ |



### Non-Cluster Admin



*Non-Cluster Admin* refers to lower-level project roles such as the *Cluster Editor* or the *Cluster Viewer*, or custom Palette resource roles that do not have the *delete* permissions for the resource key *cluster*. 

| **Project Role** | **OIDC Configured** | **Spectro Proxy Enabled** | **Access Kubeconfig File** | 
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Non-Cluster Admin | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ |
| Non-Cluster Admin | ❌ | ✅ | ❌ |
| Non-Cluster Admin | ✅ | ❌ | ✅  |