docs/docs-content/clusters/cluster-management/platform-settings/cluster-auto-remediation.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: "Cluster Auto Remediation"
title: "Cluster Auto Remediation"
description: "Learn about Palette's Cluster Auto Remediation platform setting."
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 10
tags: ["clusters", "cluster management"]
---

Palette provides Cluster Auto Remediation as a node reconciliation operation. When Cluster Auto Remediation is enabled,
unhealthy nodes in all the Palette-provisioned clusters will automatically be replaced with new nodes. Turning off this
feature will disable auto remediation. This feature can work under two scopes:

- Tenant

- Project

:::warning

This feature does not apply to EKS or AKS clusters.

:::

## Prerequisites

- Tenant admin or project admin access, depending on the scope.

- An existing cluster. Follow this [tutorial](../../clusters.md) to get started.

## Enablement

<Tabs groupId="clusterAutoRemediation">

<TabItem value="projectScope" label="Project Scope">

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com).

2. Navigate to the left **Main Menu** and click on **Project Settings**.

3. Select **Platform Settings**.

4. Toggle the **Cluster Auto Remediation** button.

5. A pop-up box will ask you to confirm the action. Click **OK**.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="tenantScope" label="Tenant Scope">

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com).

2. Navigate to the left **Main Menu** and click on **Tenant Settings**.

3. Select **Platform Settings**.

4. Toggle the **Cluster Auto Remediation** button.

5. A pop-up box will ask you to confirm the action. Click **OK**.

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Validate

<Tabs groupId="clusterAutoRemediation">

<TabItem value="projectScope" label="Project Scope">

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com).

2. Navigate to the left **Main Menu** and click on **Project Settings**.

3. Select **Platform Settings**.

4. The **Cluster Auto Remediation** toggle button is checked.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="tenantScope" label="Tenant Scope">

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com).

2. Navigate to the left **Main Menu** and click on **Tenant Settings**.

3. Select **Platform Settings**.

4. The **Cluster Auto Remediation** toggle button is checked.

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

Commit message:

Reapply "Merge branch 'docs-rel-4-7-c' into DOC-2060"
This reverts commit f3c3c16ec4de01708a63e22d77ce7f61209f0f89.

docs/docs-content/clusters/cluster-management/platform-settings/cluster-auto-remediation.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: "Cluster Auto Remediation"
title: "Cluster Auto Remediation"
description: "Learn about Palette's Cluster Auto Remediation platform setting."
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 10
tags: ["clusters", "cluster management"]
---

Palette provides Cluster Auto Remediation as a node reconciliation operation. When Cluster Auto Remediation is enabled,
unhealthy nodes in all the Palette-provisioned clusters will automatically be replaced with new nodes. Turning off this
feature will disable auto remediation. This feature can work under two scopes:

- Tenant

- Project

:::warning

This feature does not apply to EKS or AKS clusters.

:::

## Prerequisites

- Tenant admin or project admin access, depending on the scope.

- An existing cluster. Follow this [tutorial](../../clusters.md) to get started.

## Enablement

:::info

By default, the Cluster Auto Remediation setting inherits its value from the tenant settings. To override this behavior
at the project level, follow the instructions for **Project Scope**. If overridden, all clusters in the project will use
the project-level value instead of the tenant-level value.

:::

<Tabs groupId="clusterAutoRemediation">

<TabItem value="projectScope" label="Project Scope">

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com).

2. Navigate to the left **Main Menu** and click on **Project Settings**.

3. Select **Platform Settings**.

4. Toggle the **Override Cluster Auto Remediation** button.

   The **Cluster Auto Remediation** option appears when **Override Cluster Auto Remediation** is enabled.

5. Toggle the **Cluster Auto Remediation** button to enable or disable the feature.

6. A pop-up box will ask you to confirm the action. Click **OK**.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="tenantScope" label="Tenant Scope">

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com).

2. Navigate to the left **Main Menu** and click on **Tenant Settings**.

3. Select **Platform Settings**.

4. Toggle the **Cluster Auto Remediation** button to enable or disable the feature.

5. A pop-up box will ask you to confirm the action. Click **OK**.

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Validate

<Tabs groupId="clusterAutoRemediation">

<TabItem value="projectScope" label="Project Scope">

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com).

2. Navigate to the left **Main Menu** and click on **Project Settings**.

3. Select **Platform Settings**.

4. The **Override Cluster Auto Remediation** toggle button is checked or unchecked based on the last action.

5. If the **Override Cluster Auto Remediation** toggle button is checked, the **Cluster Auto Remediation** toggle button
   will be visible and checked or unchecked based on the last action.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="tenantScope" label="Tenant Scope">

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com).

2. Navigate to the left **Main Menu** and click on **Tenant Settings**.

3. Select **Platform Settings**.

4. The **Cluster Auto Remediation** toggle button is checked or unchecked based on the last action.

</TabItem>

</Tabs>
