docs/docs-content/vertex/install-palette-vertex/airgap/airgap.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: "Airgap"
title: "Airgap"
description: "Learn about Palette VerteX in an airgap environment and how to install Palette in an airgap environment."
icon: ""
sidebar_position: 10
hide_table_of_contents: false
tags: ["vertex", "self-hosted", "airgap"]
keywords: ["self-hosted", "vertex"]
---

You can install Palette VerteX in an airgapped environment. An airgap environment lacks direct access to the internet
and is intended for environments with strict security requirements.

The installation process for an airgap environment is different due to the lack of internet access. Before the primary
VerteX installation steps, you must download the following artifacts.

- Palette VerteX platform manifests and required platform packages.

- Container images for core platform components and third party dependencies.

- Palette VerteX packs.

The other significant change is that VerteX's default public OCI registry is not used. Instead, a private OCI registry
is utilized for storing images and packs.

## Overview

Before you can install VerteX in an airgap environment, you must complete all the required pre-install steps. The
following diagram outlines the major pre-install steps for an airgap installation.

![An architecture diagram outlining the five different install phases](/enterprise-version_air-gap-repo_overview-order-diagram.png)

1. Download the airgap setup binary from the support team. The airgap setup binary is a self-extracting archive that
   contains the Palette platform manifests, images, and required packs. The airgap setup binary is a one-time use binary
   for uploading VerteX images and packs to your OCI registry. You will not use the airgap setup binary again after the
   initial installation.

2. Extract the manifest content from the airgap setup binary. The manifest content is hosted on a file server.

3. Install VerteX using the Palette CLI. The Palette CLI is used to install VerteX into your vSphere environment.

4. Configure your VerteX environment.

## Get Started

To get started with an airgap VerteX installation, check out the respective platform guide.

- [Kubernetes Airgap Instructions](kubernetes-airgap-instructions.md)

- [VMware vSphere Airgap Instructions](vmware-vsphere-airgap-instructions.md)

Each platform guide provides detailed instructions on how to complete the pre-install steps. We also recommend you
review the [Checklist](checklist.md) to ensure you have completed all the required steps before deploying the airgap
VerteX installation.

## Supported Platforms

| **Platform**   | **OCI Registry** | **Supported** |
| -------------- | ---------------- | ------------- |
| Kubernetes     | Harbor           | ✅            |
| Kubernetes     | AWS ECR          | ✅            |
| VMware vSphere | Harbor           | ✅            |
| VMware vSphere | AWS ECR          | ✅            |

## Resources

- [Kubernetes Airgap Instructions](kubernetes-airgap-instructions.md)

- [VMware vSphere Airgap Instructions](vmware-vsphere-airgap-instructions.md)

- [Checklist](checklist.md)

- [Additional Packs](supplemental-packs.md)

- [Offline Documentation](offline-docs.md)

Commit message:

docs: airgap refactor DOC-1044 DOC-1043 DOC-973
* docs: updated diagram

* chore: more content

* docs: added more steps

* chore: save

* chore: save

* chore: merged master

* docs: more step

* save

* docs: updated airgap VMware step

* docs: DOC-1044 metalLB limitation

* docs: DOC-1043 Grafana issue

* docs: language cleanup

* docs: ready for ent refactpr

* docs: added OVAs

* docs: prep for palette airgap

* docs: save

* docs: final touches

* docs: vale feedback

* Optimised images with calibre/image-actions

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Yuliia Horbenko <31223054+yuliiiah@users.noreply.github.com>

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Yuliia Horbenko <31223054+yuliiiah@users.noreply.github.com>

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Yuliia Horbenko <31223054+yuliiiah@users.noreply.github.com>

* docs: feedback - manual

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Yuliia Horbenko <31223054+yuliiiah@users.noreply.github.com>

* docs: ready for merge

* chore: prettier fix

---------

Co-authored-by: github-actions[bot] <41898282+github-actions[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Yuliia Horbenko <31223054+yuliiiah@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/docs-content/vertex/install-palette-vertex/airgap/airgap.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: "Airgap"
title: "Airgap"
description: "Learn about Palette VerteX in an airgap environment and how to install Palette in an airgap environment."
icon: ""
sidebar_position: 10
hide_table_of_contents: false
tags: ["vertex", "self-hosted", "airgap"]
keywords: ["self-hosted", "vertex"]
---

You can install Palette VerteX in an airgapped environment. An airgap environment lacks direct access to the internet
and is intended for environments with strict security requirements.

The installation process for an airgap environment is different due to the lack of internet access. Before the primary
VerteX installation steps, you must download the following artifacts.

- Palette VerteX platform manifests and required platform packages.

- Container images for core platform components and third party dependencies.

- Palette VerteX packs.

The other significant change is that VerteX's default public OCI registry is not used. Instead, a private OCI registry
is utilized for storing images and packs.

## Overview

Before you can install VerteX in an airgap environment, you must complete all the required pre-install steps. The
following diagram outlines the major pre-install steps for an airgap installation.

![An architecture diagram outlining the five different install phases](/enterprise-version_air-gap-repo_overview-order-diagram.png)

1. Download the airgap setup binary from the support team. The airgap setup binary is a self-extracting archive that
   contains the Palette platform manifests, images, and required packs. The airgap setup binary is a one-time use binary
   for uploading VerteX images and packs to your OCI registry. You will not use the airgap setup binary again after the
   initial installation.

2. Extract the manifest content from the airgap setup binary. The manifest content is hosted on a file server.

3. Install VerteX using the Palette CLI. The Palette CLI is used to install VerteX into your vSphere environment.

4. Configure your VerteX environment.

## Get Started

To get started with an airgap VerteX installation, check out the respective platform guide.

- [Kubernetes Airgap Instructions](kubernetes-airgap-instructions.md)

- [VMware vSphere Airgap Instructions](vmware-vsphere-airgap-instructions.md)

Each platform guide provides detailed instructions on how to complete the pre-install steps. We also recommend you
review the [Checklist](checklist.md) to ensure you have completed all the required steps before deploying the airgap
VerteX installation.

## Supported Platforms

The following table outlines the supported platforms for an airgap VerteX installation and the supported OCI registries.

| **Platform**   | **OCI Registry** | **Supported** |
| -------------- | ---------------- | ------------- |
| Kubernetes     | Harbor           | ✅            |
| Kubernetes     | AWS ECR          | ✅            |
| VMware vSphere | Harbor           | ✅            |
| VMware vSphere | AWS ECR          | ✅            |

## Resources

- [Kubernetes Airgap Instructions](kubernetes-airgap-instructions.md)

- [VMware vSphere Airgap Instructions](vmware-vsphere-airgap-instructions.md)

- [Checklist](checklist.md)

- [Additional Packs](supplemental-packs.md)

- [Offline Documentation](offline-docs.md)
