docs/docs-content/clusters/public-cloud/aws/architecture.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: "Architecture"
title: "AWS Architecture"
description: "Learn about Palette and the architecture used to support Palette"
hide_table_of_contents: false
tags: ["public cloud", "aws", "architecture"]
sidebar_position: 0
---

The following are some architectural highlights of the Amazon Web Services (AWS) clusters that Palette provisions:

- Kubernetes nodes can be distributed across multiple availability zones (AZs) to achieve high availability (HA). For
  each of the AZs that you select, a public subnet and a private subnet is created.

- All the control plane nodes and worker nodes are created within the private subnets, so there is no direct public
  access available.

- A Network Address Translation (NAT) Gateway is created in the public subnet of each AZ, to allow nodes in the private
  subnet to be able to go out to the internet or call other AWS services.

- An Internet Gateway (IG) is created for each Virtual Private Cloud (VPC), to allow Secure Shell Protocol (SSH) access
  to the bastion node for debugging purposes. SSH into Kubernetes nodes is only available through the bastion node. A
  bastion node helps to provide access to the Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) instances. This is because the EC2
  instances are created in a private subnet and the bastion node operates as a secure, single point of entry into the
  infrastructure. The bastion node can be accessed via SSH or Remote Desktop (RDP).

- The Kubernetes API Server endpoint is accessible through an Elastic Load Balancing (ELB), which load balances across
  all the control plane nodes.

![A diagram of AWS architecture](/clusters_aws_architecture_aws_cluster_architecture.webp)

## AWS EKS Architecture

Palette also supports deploying and managing AWS Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS) clusters. Review the architectural
highlights pertaining to EKS when managed by Palette.

- Cluster resources such as Virtual Machines (VMs) can be provisioned into an existing infrastructure (gateways, VPCs,
  subnets etc.) as part of static provisioning as well as new dedicated infrastructure as part of dynamic provisioning.

- Palette supports the usage of
  [EKS Fargate Profiles](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/fargate-profile.html).

- Spot instance support

![eks_cluster_architecture.webp](/clusters_aws_create-and-manage-aws-eks-cluster_architecture.webp)

### Worker Node Requirements

Your Amazon EKS cluster must include at least one worker node to host the Palette agent, which is essential for Palette
to manage the cluster. Due to the EKS architecture, the Palette agent cannot be installed on the EKS control plane.

- **Minimum Instance Type**: Worker nodes must use an instance type of at least **t3.xlarge** to ensure adequate
  resources. AWS sets a default storage of 20 GB for Linux-based EKS worker nodes (the
  [diskSize](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/APIReference/API_CreateNodegroup.html#API_CreateNodegroup_RequestSyntax)
  parameter), and we recommend this as the minimum size.

- **Ongoing Node Availability**: To maintain continuous management capabilities, at least one worker node should remain
  available at all times for the Palette agent to operate effectively.

### Disable OIDC Associate Provider

You can disable the OIDC associate provider if the service provider restricts the cluster deployment with the OIDC
associate provider in the enabled state. Customize the EKS Kubernetes pack YAML values with the following option:

```yaml
managedControlPlane:
  disableAssociateOIDCProvider: true
```

## AWS Instance Type and Pod Capacity

Choose the instance type and the number of instances to be launched by calculating the number of expected pods. You
should also calculate the number of pods scheduled per node for an instance type. Improperly sized nodes can cause
cluster creation to fail due to resource unavailability.

The following section describes calculating the pod capacity for AWS instance types. This calculation will help you
select the proper instance type and the number of desired workers in a worker pool. We recommend for most workloads
choosing an instance that can support at least 30 pods.

### Formula for Pod Calculation

Number of pods = N \* (M-1) + 2

Where:

- **N** is the number of Elastic Network Interfaces (ENI) of the instance type (Maximum network interfaces).
- **M** is the number of IP addresses of a single ENI (Private IPv4 addresses per interface/IPv6 addresses per
  interface).
- Values for **N** and **M** for each instance type can be referred from
  [this document](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/using-eni.html#AvailableIpPerENI).

### Example Calculation

- For instance type = t3.medium
- For values of N = 3, and M = 6 (values derived from AWS
  [document](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/using-eni.html#AvailableIpPerENI) )
- N \* (M-1) + 2 = 3(6-1)+2 =17 pods/instances
- In this example, at least two (2) t3.medium instances are needed to reach the minimum of 30 pods threshold.

When setting the desired size of the worker pool, make the choice as per pod requirement. In the example provided, two
instances of t3.medium are needed to satisfy the resource requirement of an EKS cluster.

## Spot Instances

By default, worker pools are configured to use on-demand instances. However, to take advantage of discounted spot
instance pricing you can specify spot instances when creating a cluster. The **On-Spot** option can be selected in the
node configuration page during cluster creation. This option allows you to specify a maximum bid price for the nodes as
a percentage of the on-demand price. Palette tracks the current price for spot instances and launches nodes, when the
spot price falls in the specified range.

## Tags

You can assign tags to clusters deployed to AWS. Tags can help you with user access control management and more
granularly restrict access to various Palette resources, including clusters. Check out the
[Resource Filters](../../../tenant-settings/filters.md) documentation page to learn more about using tags to restrict
resource access.

The custom tags you create are assigned to the clusters during the creation process. Tags follow the key-value-pair
format: `department: finance`. In addition to the custom tags provided by you, Palette-provisioned AWS resources will
receive the following default tags.

| Key                                                          | Value                    | Description                                                                                                             |
| ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `Name`                                                       | [`clusterName-resource`] | The name of the AWS resource. Use the format [cluster name] - [resource type name]. Example: `mycluste2r-vpc`           |
| `kubernetes.io/cluster/[clusterName]`.                       | owned                    | This tag only applies to cluster nodes. Used for Palette internal purposes to help manage the lifecycle of the cluster. |
| `sigs.k8s.io/cluster-api-provider-aws/cluster/[clusterName]` | owned                    | Used for Palette internal purposes to help manage the lifecycle of the cluster.                                         |
| `sigs.k8s.io/cluster-api-provider-aws/role`                  | common                   | Used for Palette internal purposes to help manage the lifecycle of the cluster.                                         |
| `spectro__ownerUid`                                          | [`uniqueId`]             | The Palette tenant's id. Example: `1356fc37ab1aac03a5d66b4c`.                                                           |

## Automatic Network Discovery

You must add a set of specific tags to enable automatic subnet discovery by Palette for integration with the AWS load
balancer service. Add the following tags Virtual Private Network (VPC) public subnets. Replace the value
`yourClusterName` with your cluster's name.

<br />

- `kubernetes.io/role/elb = 1`
- `sigs.k8s.io/cluster-api-provider-aws/role = public`
- `kubernetes.io/cluster/[yourClusterName] = shared`
- `sigs.k8s.io/cluster-api-provider-aws/cluster/[yourClusterName] = owned`

## Custom Security Group Ingress Rules

Palette provisions a Virtual Private Network (VPC) for the control plane and worker nodes of AWS IaaS clusters. It then
also creates multiple security groups, which help manage and secure the resources within the VPC. By default, the API
Load Balancer security group allows all inbound traffic, specified using an ingress rule with the CIDR range `0.0.0.0/0`
and port `6443`.

:::warning

Security groups with CIDR range `0.0.0.0/0` will be automatically removed in AWS environments configured with
[auto remediation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/config/latest/developerguide/setup-autoremediation.html). The cluster
will then become inaccessible.

We recommend that you configure custom security group ingress rules to all the cluster profiles that you will be deploy
to AWS IaaS on secure environments.

:::

You can change the load balancer security group ingress rule by specifying a custom CIDR range in the Kubernetes pack
**Values** of your cluster profile. This custom ingress rule allows node to node communication within the specified CIDR
range.

```yaml
cloud:
  aws:
    nodePortCIDRBlocks:
      - 10.0.0.0/16
```

Similarly, the bastion node also receives a security group ingress rule of `0.0.0.0/0`. You can specify a custom ingress
rule for your bastion node to only allow traffic from hosts in the specified IP range.

```yaml
cloud:
  aws:
    bastion:
      allowedCIDRBlocks:
        - 10.0.0.0/16
```

You can change your specified ingress rules by editing your cluster profile at any point, before or after cluster
deployment.

Commit message:

DOC-2063 - Karpenter read-only support for EKS (#7714)
* docs: Karpenter read-only support for EKS

* docs: screenshot and content changes

docs/docs-content/clusters/public-cloud/aws/architecture.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: "Architecture"
title: "AWS Architecture"
description: "Learn about Palette and the architecture used to support Palette"
hide_table_of_contents: false
tags: ["public cloud", "aws", "architecture"]
sidebar_position: 0
---

The following are some architectural highlights of the Amazon Web Services (AWS) clusters that Palette provisions:

- Kubernetes nodes can be distributed across multiple availability zones (AZs) to achieve high availability (HA). For
  each of the AZs that you select, a public subnet and a private subnet is created.

- All the control plane nodes and worker nodes are created within the private subnets, so there is no direct public
  access available.

- A Network Address Translation (NAT) Gateway is created in the public subnet of each AZ, to allow nodes in the private
  subnet to be able to go out to the internet or call other AWS services.

- An Internet Gateway (IG) is created for each Virtual Private Cloud (VPC), to allow Secure Shell Protocol (SSH) access
  to the bastion node for debugging purposes. SSH into Kubernetes nodes is only available through the bastion node. A
  bastion node helps to provide access to the Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) instances. This is because the EC2
  instances are created in a private subnet and the bastion node operates as a secure, single point of entry into the
  infrastructure. The bastion node can be accessed via SSH or Remote Desktop (RDP).

- The Kubernetes API Server endpoint is accessible through an Elastic Load Balancing (ELB), which load balances across
  all the control plane nodes.

![A diagram of AWS architecture](/clusters_aws_architecture_aws_cluster_architecture.webp)

## AWS EKS Architecture

Palette also supports deploying and managing AWS Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS) clusters. Review the architectural
highlights pertaining to EKS when managed by Palette.

- Cluster resources such as Virtual Machines (VMs) can be provisioned into an existing infrastructure (gateways, VPCs,
  subnets etc.) as part of static provisioning as well as new dedicated infrastructure as part of dynamic provisioning.

- Palette supports the usage of
  [EKS Fargate Profiles](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/fargate-profile.html).

- Spot instance support

![eks_cluster_architecture.webp](/clusters_aws_create-and-manage-aws-eks-cluster_architecture.webp)

### Worker Node Requirements

Your Amazon EKS cluster must include at least one worker node to host the Palette agent, which is essential for Palette
to manage the cluster. Due to the EKS architecture, the Palette agent cannot be installed on the EKS control plane.

- **Minimum Instance Type**: Worker nodes must use an instance type of at least **t3.xlarge** to ensure adequate
  resources. AWS sets a default storage of 20 GB for Linux-based EKS worker nodes (the
  [diskSize](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/APIReference/API_CreateNodegroup.html#API_CreateNodegroup_RequestSyntax)
  parameter), and we recommend this as the minimum size.

- **Ongoing Node Availability**: To maintain continuous management capabilities, at least one worker node should remain
  available at all times for the Palette agent to operate effectively.

### Disable OIDC Associate Provider

You can disable the OIDC associate provider if the service provider restricts the cluster deployment with the OIDC
associate provider in the enabled state. Customize the EKS Kubernetes pack YAML values with the following option:

```yaml
managedControlPlane:
  disableAssociateOIDCProvider: true
```

### Karpenter Support

Nodes provisioned through [Karpenter](https://karpenter.sh/docs/) are visible in Palette and supported for read-only
operations, such as billing and monitoring. However, [Day-2 operations](../../cluster-management/cluster-management.md)
are not supported.

The **Managed by Karpenter** banner is displayed for any node pools that are provisioned using Karpenter.

![Karpenter node in Palette](/public-cloud_aws_architecture_managed-by-karpenter.webp)

## AWS Instance Type and Pod Capacity

Choose the instance type and the number of instances to be launched by calculating the number of expected pods. You
should also calculate the number of pods scheduled per node for an instance type. Improperly sized nodes can cause
cluster creation to fail due to resource unavailability.

The following section describes calculating the pod capacity for AWS instance types. This calculation will help you
select the proper instance type and the number of desired workers in a worker pool. We recommend for most workloads
choosing an instance that can support at least 30 pods.

### Formula for Pod Calculation

Number of pods = N \* (M-1) + 2

Where:

- **N** is the number of Elastic Network Interfaces (ENI) of the instance type (Maximum network interfaces).
- **M** is the number of IP addresses of a single ENI (Private IPv4 addresses per interface/IPv6 addresses per
  interface).
- Values for **N** and **M** for each instance type can be referred from
  [this document](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/using-eni.html#AvailableIpPerENI).

### Example Calculation

- For instance type = t3.medium
- For values of N = 3, and M = 6 (values derived from AWS
  [document](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/using-eni.html#AvailableIpPerENI) )
- N \* (M-1) + 2 = 3(6-1)+2 =17 pods/instances
- In this example, at least two (2) t3.medium instances are needed to reach the minimum of 30 pods threshold.

When setting the desired size of the worker pool, make the choice as per pod requirement. In the example provided, two
instances of t3.medium are needed to satisfy the resource requirement of an EKS cluster.

## Spot Instances

By default, worker pools are configured to use on-demand instances. However, to take advantage of discounted spot
instance pricing you can specify spot instances when creating a cluster. The **On-Spot** option can be selected in the
node configuration page during cluster creation. This option allows you to specify a maximum bid price for the nodes as
a percentage of the on-demand price. Palette tracks the current price for spot instances and launches nodes, when the
spot price falls in the specified range.

## Tags

You can assign tags to clusters deployed to AWS. Tags can help you with user access control management and more
granularly restrict access to various Palette resources, including clusters. Check out the
[Resource Filters](../../../tenant-settings/filters.md) documentation page to learn more about using tags to restrict
resource access.

The custom tags you create are assigned to the clusters during the creation process. Tags follow the key-value-pair
format: `department: finance`. In addition to the custom tags provided by you, Palette-provisioned AWS resources will
receive the following default tags.

| Key                                                          | Value                    | Description                                                                                                             |
| ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `Name`                                                       | [`clusterName-resource`] | The name of the AWS resource. Use the format [cluster name] - [resource type name]. Example: `mycluste2r-vpc`           |
| `kubernetes.io/cluster/[clusterName]`.                       | owned                    | This tag only applies to cluster nodes. Used for Palette internal purposes to help manage the lifecycle of the cluster. |
| `sigs.k8s.io/cluster-api-provider-aws/cluster/[clusterName]` | owned                    | Used for Palette internal purposes to help manage the lifecycle of the cluster.                                         |
| `sigs.k8s.io/cluster-api-provider-aws/role`                  | common                   | Used for Palette internal purposes to help manage the lifecycle of the cluster.                                         |
| `spectro__ownerUid`                                          | [`uniqueId`]             | The Palette tenant's id. Example: `1356fc37ab1aac03a5d66b4c`.                                                           |

## Automatic Network Discovery

You must add a set of specific tags to enable automatic subnet discovery by Palette for integration with the AWS load
balancer service. Add the following tags Virtual Private Network (VPC) public subnets. Replace the value
`yourClusterName` with your cluster's name.

<br />

- `kubernetes.io/role/elb = 1`
- `sigs.k8s.io/cluster-api-provider-aws/role = public`
- `kubernetes.io/cluster/[yourClusterName] = shared`
- `sigs.k8s.io/cluster-api-provider-aws/cluster/[yourClusterName] = owned`

## Custom Security Group Ingress Rules

Palette provisions a Virtual Private Network (VPC) for the control plane and worker nodes of AWS IaaS clusters. It then
also creates multiple security groups, which help manage and secure the resources within the VPC. By default, the API
Load Balancer security group allows all inbound traffic, specified using an ingress rule with the CIDR range `0.0.0.0/0`
and port `6443`.

:::warning

Security groups with CIDR range `0.0.0.0/0` will be automatically removed in AWS environments configured with
[auto remediation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/config/latest/developerguide/setup-autoremediation.html). The cluster
will then become inaccessible.

We recommend that you configure custom security group ingress rules to all the cluster profiles that you will be deploy
to AWS IaaS on secure environments.

:::

You can change the load balancer security group ingress rule by specifying a custom CIDR range in the Kubernetes pack
**Values** of your cluster profile. This custom ingress rule allows node to node communication within the specified CIDR
range.

```yaml
cloud:
  aws:
    nodePortCIDRBlocks:
      - 10.0.0.0/16
```

Similarly, the bastion node also receives a security group ingress rule of `0.0.0.0/0`. You can specify a custom ingress
rule for your bastion node to only allow traffic from hosts in the specified IP range.

```yaml
cloud:
  aws:
    bastion:
      allowedCIDRBlocks:
        - 10.0.0.0/16
```

You can change your specified ingress rules by editing your cluster profile at any point, before or after cluster
deployment.
