docs/docs-content/clusters/public-cloud/aws/create-cluster.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: "Create and Manage AWS IaaS Cluster"
title: "Create and Manage AWS Cluster"
description: "Learn how to add and manage a cluster deployed to AWS."
hide_table_of_contents: false
tags: ["public cloud", "aws"]
sidebar_position: 20
---

Palette supports creating and managing Kubernetes clusters deployed to an AWS account. This section guides you on how to
create a Kubernetes cluster in AWS that is managed by Palette.

## Prerequisites

The following prerequisites must be met before deploying a cluster to AWS:

- Access to an AWS cloud account

- You have added an AWS account in Palette. Review [Add AWS Account](add-aws-accounts.md) for guidance.

- An infrastructure cluster profile. Review
  [Create an Infrastructure Profile](../../../profiles/cluster-profiles/create-cluster-profiles/create-infrastructure-profile.md)
  for guidance.

- An [EC2 Key Pair](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ec2-key-pairs.html) in the target region.

- Palette creates compute, network, and storage resources in AWS during the provisioning of Kubernetes clusters. Ensure
  there is sufficient capacity in the preferred AWS region for the creation of the following resources:

  - vCPU
  - VPC
  - Elastic IP
  - Internet Gateway
  - Elastic Load Balancers
  - NAT Gateway

  <br />

  :::info

  The following tags should be added to the virtual private network (VPC) public subnets to enable automatic subnet
  discovery for integration with AWS load balancer service. Replace the value `yourClusterName` with your cluster's
  name.

  - `kubernetes.io/role/elb = 1`
  - `sigs.k8s.io/cluster-api-provider-aws/role = public`
  - `kubernetes.io/cluster/[yourClusterName] = shared`
  - `sigs.k8s.io/cluster-api-provider-aws/cluster/[yourClusterName] = owned`

  :::

## Deploy an AWS Cluster

Use the following steps to provision a new AWS cluster:

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com) and ensure you are in the correct project scope.

2. Navigate to the left **Main Menu** and click on **Clusters**

3. Click on **Add New Cluster**

4. You will receive a prompt asking you if you want to deploy a new cluster or import an existing cluster. Click on
   **Deploy New Cluster**

5. Select **AWS** and click on **Start AWS Configuration**

6. Populate the wizard page with the following information: name, description, tags and select AWS account. Tags on a
   cluster are propagated to the VMs deployed to the computing environments. Click on **Next** after you have filled out
   all the required information.

7. Select a cluster profile. Click on **Next**.

8. Review and customize pack parameters, as desired. By default, parameters for all packs are set with values, defined
   in the cluster profile.

9. Provide the AWS cloud account and placement information.

<br />

| **Parameter**             | **Description**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| ------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| **Cloud Account**         | Select the desired cloud account. AWS cloud accounts with AWS credentials need to be pre-configured in project settings.                                                                                                                                                 |
| **Region**                | Choose the preferred AWS region where you would like to provision clusters.                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| **SSH Key Pair Name**     | Choose the desired SSH Key pair. SSH key pairs need to be pre-configured on AWS for the desired regions. The selected key is inserted into the provisioned VMs.                                                                                                          |
| **Static Placement**      | Check the **Static Placement** box if you want to deploy resources into pre-existing VPCs and subnets. Review the [Static Placement](#static-placement) table below to learn more about the required input fields.                                                       |
| **Private API Server LB** | Enable to deploy the cluster load balancer in a private subnet. This feature requires Palette to have direct network connectivity with the private subnet or a [Private Cluster Gateway](../../data-center/maas/install-manage-maas-pcg.md) deployed in the environment. |

<br />

#### Static Placement

| Parameter                                                                                 | Description |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------- |
| **VPCID**: Select the Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) ID network from the **drop-down Menu**. |
| **Control plane subnet**: Select the control plane network from the **drop-down Menu**.   |
| **Worker Network**: Select the worker network from the **drop-down Menu**.                |

10. Configure the master and worker node pools. A master and a worker node pool are configured by default. This is the
    section where you can specify the availability zones (AZ), instance types,
    [instance cost type](architecture.md#spot-instances), disk size, and the number of nodes. Click on **Next** after
    you have completed configuring the node pool.

<br />

:::info

You can add new worker pools if you need to customize certain worker nodes to run specialized workloads. As an example,
the default worker pool may be configured with the m3.large instance types for general-purpose workloads, and another
worker pool with instance type g2.2xlarge can be configured to run GPU workloads.

:::

12. An optional taint label can be applied to a node pool during the cluster creation. For an existing cluster, the
    taint label can be edited, review the [Node Pool](../../cluster-management/node-pool.md) management page to learn
    more. Toggle the **Taint** button to create a label.

13. Enable or disable node pool taints. If tainting is enabled, then you need to provide values for the following
    parameters:

    | **Parameter** | **Description**                                                                                     |
    | ------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
    | **Key**       | Custom key for the taint.                                                                           |
    | **Value**     | Custom value for the taint key.                                                                     |
    | **Effect**    | Make the choice of effect from the drop-down menu. Review the effect table bellow for more details. |

    #### Effect Table

    | **Parameter**        | **Description**                                                                                                                              |
    | -------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
    | **NoSchedule**       | A pod that cannot tolerate the node taint and should not be scheduled to the node.                                                           |
    | **PreferNoSchedule** | The system will avoid placing a non-tolerant pod to the tainted node but is not guaranteed.                                                  |
    | **NoExecute**        | New pods will not be scheduled on the node, and existing pods on the node if any on the node will be evicted they do not tolerate the taint. |

14. If you checked the **Static Placement** box in the **Cluster config** page, you can specify additional AWS
    [security groups](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/security-groups.html) to apply to the worker
    group nodes. Use the **Additional Security Groups (Optional) drop-down Menu** to select additional security groups.

15. Click on **Next**.

16. The settings page is where you can configure the patching schedule, security scans, backup settings, and set up Role
    Based Access Control (RBAC). Review the cluster settings and make changes if needed. Click on **Validate**.

17. Review the settings summary and click on **Finish Configuration** to deploy the cluster. Provisioning IaaS clusters
    can take 15 - 30 minutes depending on the cluster profile and the node pool configuration.

The cluster details page of the cluster contains the status and details of the deployment. Use this page to track the
deployment progress.

## Validate

You can validate that your cluster is up and available by reviewing the cluster details page.

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com).

2. Navigate to the left **Main Menu** and click on **Clusters**.

3. The **Clusters** page contains a list of the available clusters Palette manages. Click on the row for the cluster you
   wish to review its details page.

4. From the cluster details page, verify the **Cluster Status** field displays **Running**.

## Next Steps

Now that you have a Kubernetes cluster deployed, you can start developing and deploying applications to your clusters.
We recommend you review the day two responsibilities and become familiar with the cluster management tasks. Check out
the [Manage Clusters](../../cluster-management/cluster-management.md) documentation to learn more about day two
responsibilities.

Commit message:

[version-4-0] docs: remove master/slave DOC-1033 PEM-4404 (#2125)
* docs: remove master/slave DOC-1033 PEM-4404

* chore: fixed kubebench

docs/docs-content/clusters/public-cloud/aws/create-cluster.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: "Create and Manage AWS IaaS Cluster"
title: "Create and Manage AWS Cluster"
description: "Learn how to add and manage a cluster deployed to AWS."
hide_table_of_contents: false
tags: ["public cloud", "aws"]
sidebar_position: 20
---

Palette supports creating and managing Kubernetes clusters deployed to an AWS account. This section guides you on how to
create a Kubernetes cluster in AWS that is managed by Palette.

## Prerequisites

The following prerequisites must be met before deploying a cluster to AWS:

- Access to an AWS cloud account

- You have added an AWS account in Palette. Review [Add AWS Account](add-aws-accounts.md) for guidance.

- An infrastructure cluster profile. Review
  [Create an Infrastructure Profile](../../../profiles/cluster-profiles/create-cluster-profiles/create-infrastructure-profile.md)
  for guidance.

- An [EC2 Key Pair](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ec2-key-pairs.html) in the target region.

- Palette creates compute, network, and storage resources in AWS during the provisioning of Kubernetes clusters. Ensure
  there is sufficient capacity in the preferred AWS region for the creation of the following resources:

  - vCPU
  - VPC
  - Elastic IP
  - Internet Gateway
  - Elastic Load Balancers
  - NAT Gateway

  <br />

  :::info

  The following tags should be added to the virtual private network (VPC) public subnets to enable automatic subnet
  discovery for integration with AWS load balancer service. Replace the value `yourClusterName` with your cluster's
  name.

  - `kubernetes.io/role/elb = 1`
  - `sigs.k8s.io/cluster-api-provider-aws/role = public`
  - `kubernetes.io/cluster/[yourClusterName] = shared`
  - `sigs.k8s.io/cluster-api-provider-aws/cluster/[yourClusterName] = owned`

  :::

## Deploy an AWS Cluster

Use the following steps to provision a new AWS cluster:

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com) and ensure you are in the correct project scope.

2. Navigate to the left **Main Menu** and click on **Clusters**

3. Click on **Add New Cluster**

4. You will receive a prompt asking you if you want to deploy a new cluster or import an existing cluster. Click on
   **Deploy New Cluster**

5. Select **AWS** and click on **Start AWS Configuration**

6. Populate the wizard page with the following information: name, description, tags and select AWS account. Tags on a
   cluster are propagated to the VMs deployed to the computing environments. Click on **Next** after you have filled out
   all the required information.

7. Select a cluster profile. Click on **Next**.

8. Review and customize pack parameters, as desired. By default, parameters for all packs are set with values, defined
   in the cluster profile.

9. Provide the AWS cloud account and placement information.

<br />

| **Parameter**             | **Description**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| ------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| **Cloud Account**         | Select the desired cloud account. AWS cloud accounts with AWS credentials need to be pre-configured in project settings.                                                                                                                                                 |
| **Region**                | Choose the preferred AWS region where you would like to provision clusters.                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| **SSH Key Pair Name**     | Choose the desired SSH Key pair. SSH key pairs need to be pre-configured on AWS for the desired regions. The selected key is inserted into the provisioned VMs.                                                                                                          |
| **Static Placement**      | Check the **Static Placement** box if you want to deploy resources into pre-existing VPCs and subnets. Review the [Static Placement](#static-placement) table below to learn more about the required input fields.                                                       |
| **Private API Server LB** | Enable to deploy the cluster load balancer in a private subnet. This feature requires Palette to have direct network connectivity with the private subnet or a [Private Cluster Gateway](../../data-center/maas/install-manage-maas-pcg.md) deployed in the environment. |

<br />

#### Static Placement

| Parameter                                                                                 | Description |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------- |
| **VPCID**: Select the Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) ID network from the **drop-down Menu**. |
| **Control plane subnet**: Select the control plane network from the **drop-down Menu**.   |
| **Worker Network**: Select the worker network from the **drop-down Menu**.                |

10. Configure the control plane and worker node pools. A control plane and a worker node pool are configured by default.
    This is the section where you can specify the availability zones (AZ), instance types,
    [instance cost type](architecture.md#spot-instances), disk size, and the number of nodes. Click on **Next** after
    you have completed configuring the node pool. The minimum number of CPUs and amount of memory depend on your cluster
    profile, but in general you need at least 4 CPUs and 4 GB of memory both in the control plane pool and across all
    worker pools.

<br />

:::info

You can add new worker pools if you need to customize certain worker nodes to run specialized workloads. As an example,
the default worker pool may be configured with the m3.large instance types for general-purpose workloads, and another
worker pool with instance type g2.2xlarge can be configured to run GPU workloads.

:::

12. An optional taint label can be applied to a node pool during the cluster creation. For an existing cluster, the
    taint label can be edited, review the [Node Pool](../../cluster-management/node-pool.md) management page to learn
    more. Toggle the **Taint** button to create a label.

13. Enable or disable node pool taints. If tainting is enabled, then you need to provide values for the following
    parameters:

    | **Parameter** | **Description**                                                                                     |
    | ------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
    | **Key**       | Custom key for the taint.                                                                           |
    | **Value**     | Custom value for the taint key.                                                                     |
    | **Effect**    | Make the choice of effect from the drop-down menu. Review the effect table bellow for more details. |

    #### Effect Table

    | **Parameter**        | **Description**                                                                                                                              |
    | -------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
    | **NoSchedule**       | A pod that cannot tolerate the node taint and should not be scheduled to the node.                                                           |
    | **PreferNoSchedule** | The system will avoid placing a non-tolerant pod to the tainted node but is not guaranteed.                                                  |
    | **NoExecute**        | New pods will not be scheduled on the node, and existing pods on the node if any on the node will be evicted they do not tolerate the taint. |

14. If you checked the **Static Placement** box in the **Cluster config** page, you can specify additional AWS
    [security groups](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/security-groups.html) to apply to the worker
    group nodes. Use the **Additional Security Groups (Optional) drop-down Menu** to select additional security groups.

15. Click on **Next**.

16. The settings page is where you can configure the patching schedule, security scans, backup settings, and set up Role
    Based Access Control (RBAC). Review the cluster settings and make changes if needed. Click on **Validate**.

17. Review the settings summary and click on **Finish Configuration** to deploy the cluster. Provisioning IaaS clusters
    can take 15 - 30 minutes depending on the cluster profile and the node pool configuration.

The cluster details page of the cluster contains the status and details of the deployment. Use this page to track the
deployment progress.

## Validate

You can validate that your cluster is up and available by reviewing the cluster details page.

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com).

2. Navigate to the left **Main Menu** and click on **Clusters**.

3. The **Clusters** page contains a list of the available clusters Palette manages. Click on the row for the cluster you
   wish to review its details page.

4. From the cluster details page, verify the **Cluster Status** field displays **Running**.

## Next Steps

Now that you have a Kubernetes cluster deployed, you can start developing and deploying applications to your clusters.
We recommend you review the day two responsibilities and become familiar with the cluster management tasks. Check out
the [Manage Clusters](../../cluster-management/cluster-management.md) documentation to learn more about day two
responsibilities.
