---
title: "Spectro Cloud CLI Tool"
metaTitle: "Spectro Cloud CLI Tool"
metaDescription: "A reference sheet for the Spectro Cloud CLI tool"
icon: ""
hideToC: false
fullWidth: false
---

import WarningBox from '@librarium/shared/src/components/WarningBox';

# Overview

The Spectro CLI is a command-line interface for the Spectro Registry server to upload or download the packs using commands.

# Pre-requisites

1. The Spectro CLI tool must be installed.
2. A custom registry server must be up and running.

# Installation

The Spectro CLI tool is currently available for OSX and Linux.

1. Download the CLI binary file:

```
OSX   : $wget https://spectro-cli.s3.amazonaws.com/v1.0.0/osx/spectro > spectro
Linux : $wget https://spectro-cli.s3.amazonaws.com/v1.0.0/linux/spectro > spectro
```

2. Provide the executable permission to the CLI spectro.

```
$chmod +x spectro
```

# Global Arguments

List of Arguments available to all the Spectro CLI commands

# Global Flags

* List of Flags available to all the Spectro CLI commands:

    * h, --help - help for each command

# Commands

## LOGIN

Authenticate user with Spectro registry by using the login command:
```
Usage   : $./spectro registry login [SERVER] 
Example : $./spectro registry login spectro.io:5000
          $./spectro registry login spectro.io:5000 --insecure --default
```

### Args

SERVER - Spectro registry server in the format [host:port]

### Flags

-i, --insecure - Insecure is used when the registry is private and supports only HTTP or HTTPS with unknown CA certificates.

-d, --default - Set the server as default Spectro registry for all the CLI commands

**Note:** In case of HTTPS, if you have access to the registry's CA certificate, there is no need for the flag; simply place the CA certificate at /etc/spectro/certs.d/&lt;SPECTRO_REGISTRY&gt;/ca.crt

## PUSH

Upload the pack content from the pack source dir to the Spectro registry.

```
Usage   : $./spectro pack push [PACK_SOURCE_DIR] [flags]
Example : $./spectro pack push /tmp/packs/nginx-1.16.1
          $./spectro pack push /tmp/packs/nginx-1.16.1 --registry-server spectro.io:5000
```

### Args

PACK_SOURCE_DIR: Directory location where pack content is located

### Flags

-r, --registry-server string - To override the default Spectro registry

## LIST

List all the packs from the Spectro registry:
```
Usage   : $./spectro pack ls [flags]
Example : $./spectro pack ls spectro.io:5000
          $./spectro pack ls spectro.io:5000 --name ubuntu --registry-server spectro.io:5000
```

### Flags

-n, --name string - packs can be filtered by pack name

-r, --registry-server string - To override the default Spectro registry

## PULL

Download the packs from the Spectro registry to a pack target location:

```
Usage   : $./spectro pack pull NAME[:TAG|@DIGEST] TARGET_DIR [flags]
Example : $./spectro pack pull nginx:1.16.1 /tmp/packs
          $./spectro pack pull nginx@sha256:5269f073ac8e3c2536270b496ca1cc537e32e44186a5a014b8c48cddca3c6e87 /tmp/packs --registry-server spectro.io:5000
```

### Args

PACK_NAME: TAG|@DIGEST - Name of the pack for a particular tag or a sha digest

PACK_TARGET_DIR - Directory location where pack content will be pulled

### Flags

-r, --registry-server string - To override the default Spectro registry

## TAG

### ADD

Create a new tag to a pack which is already pushed to the Spectro registry:
```
Usage   : $./spectro pack tag add SOURCE_PACK:TAG TARGET_LABEL [flags]
Example : $./spectro pack tag add ubuntu:lts__14.4.3 stable
          $./spectro pack tag add ubuntu:lts__14.4.3 14.4.3-beta -g lts -r spectro.io:5000
```

**Note:** Tag is a combination of label and the group name. The label is mandatory whereas the group is optional.

tag → &lt;group&gt;__&lt;label&gt;

Ex. lts___14.4.3 : lts → group, 14.4.3 → label

### Args

PACK_NAME: TAG - Name of the pack for a particular tag to which new tag will be created

TARGET_LABEL - Target tag label

### Flags

-g, --group string - Target tag group

-r, --registry-server string - To override the default Spectro registry

### DELETE

Delete a tag to a pack which is already pushed to the Spectro registry
```
Usage   : $./spectro pack tag delete PACK:TAG [flags]
Example : $./spectro pack tag delete ubuntu:14.4.3 
          $./spectro pack tag delete ubuntu:14.4.3 -r spectro.io:5000
```
**Note:** Parent tags like major version (Ex: 14.x) and minor version (Ex: 14.4.x) can not be deleted as these are auto-generated by the system. So, when no tags are associated with the pack then these are auto-deleted by the system. When a tag (Ex: 14.4.3) is deleted then the major and minor version tags are auto-linked to the remaining tags of a pack.

### Args

PACK_NAME: TAG - Pack name and Tag which needs to be deleted

### Flags

-r, --registry-server string - To override the default Spectro registry
