docs/docs-content/clusters/edge/edgeforge-workflow/palette-canvos/fips.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: "Build FIPS-Compliant Edge Artifacts"
title: "Build FIPS-Compliant Edge Artifacts"
description: "Learn how to build Edge Installer ISO and provider images to install FIPS-compliant Palette Edge."
icon: ""
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 30
tags: ["edge"]
---

Palette Edge supports
[Federal Information Processing Standards](https://www.nist.gov/standardsgov/compliance-faqs-federal-information-processing-standards-fips)
(FIPS)-compliant Edge clusters. To deploy a FIPS-compliant Edge cluster, you need to build FIPS-enabled Edge artifacts.
Both the Edge Installer ISO and the provider images must be FIPS-compliant.

This page guides you through the process of building FIPS-compliant Edge Installer ISO and provider images.

## Prerequisites

- A physical or virtual Linux machine with _AMD64_ (also known as _x86_64_) processor architecture to build the Edge
  artifacts. You can issue the following command in the terminal to check your processor architecture.

  ```bash
  uname -m
  ```

- Minimum hardware configuration of the Linux machine:

  - 4 CPU
  - 8 GB memory
  - 50 GB storage

- Depending on the Operating System (OS) you want to use on your Edge host, you will need the following subscription
  credentials:

  - Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL): RHEL subscription token.
  - Ubuntu Pro: Ubuntu Pro subscription token.

  Contact your system administrator for access to the subscription credentials.

- [Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads). You can ensure git installation by issuing the `git --version` command.

- [Docker Engine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) version 18.09.x or later. You can use the `docker --version`
  command to check the existing Docker version. You should have root-level or `sudo` privileges on your Linux machine to
  create privileged containers.

- A [VerteX](/docs/docs-content/vertex/vertex.md) account. Refer to
  [Palette VerteX](/docs/docs-content/vertex/vertex.md#access-palette-vertex) for information on how to set up a VerteX
  account.

- VerteX registration token for pairing Edge hosts with VerteX. You will need tenant admin access to VerteX to generate
  a new registration token. For detailed instructions, refer to the
  [Create Registration Token](/clusters/edge/site-deployment/site-installation/create-registration-token) guide.

## Build FIPS-Enabled Edge Artifacts

### Clone CanvOS Repository

1. Clone the [CanvOS](https://github.com/spectrocloud/CanvOS) GitHub repository containing the starter code.

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/spectrocloud/CanvOS.git
   ```

2. Change to the **CanvOS/** directory.

   ```bash
   cd CanvOS
   ```

3. Ensure that you are using the **main** branch of the repository.

   ```bash
   git tag
   ```

### Build FIPS-Compliant Base OS Image

Before you can build the Edge Installer ISO or the provider images, you need to build a FIPS-compliant OS base image
with the Kairos framework. This base image is then used to build the final Edge artifacts.

Palette supports the RHEL and Ubuntu for FIPS-compliant base OS images. Choose the OS that you want to build the base
image with.

<Tabs>

<TabItem label="Red Hat Enterprise Linux" value="rhel">

5. Change into the **rhel-fips** directory.

6. In the file **Dockerfile**, provide your RHEL subscription username and password.

   ```text
   ARG USERNAME=name@spectrocloud.com
   ARG PASSWORD=***********
   ```

7. Issue the following command to start building the provider images.

   ```shell
   bash build.sh
   ```

   :::info

   If you experience issues with the script not recognizing the RHEL credentials, try searching **Dockerfile** for the
   following line and replacing the credentials directly:

   ```dockerfile
   RUN rm /etc/rhsm-host && subscription-manager register --username 'your-username' --password '*******' \
   ```

   :::

8. When the build finishes, issue `docker images` and confirm there is an image named `rhel-byoi-fips:latest`. This is
   the base image that you will use to build provider images and the Edge installer ISO later on.

9. Tag the image with a repository that is accessible by your Linux machine. For example, the following command uses the
   publicly accessible `ttl.sh` repository.

   ```shell
   docker tag rhel-byoi-fips:latest ttl.sh/rhel/rhel-byoi-fips:latest
   ```

10. Push the image to the repository.

    ```shell
    docker push ttl.sh/rhel/rhel-byoi-fips:latest
    ```

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Ubuntu" value="ubuntu">

5. Change into the **ubuntu-fips** directory.

6. In the file **pro-attach-config.yaml**, provide your Ubuntu Pro subscription token.

   ```yaml
   token: *******
   ```

7. Issue the following command to start building the provider images.

   ```shell
   bash build.sh
   ```

8. When the build finishes, issue `docker images` and confirm there is an image named `ubuntu-focal-fips:latest`. This
   is the base image that you will use to build provider images and the Edge installer ISO later on.

9. Tag the image with a repository that is accessible by your Linux machine. For example, use the publicly accessible
   `ttl.sh` repository.

   ```shell
   docker tag ubuntu-focal-fips:latest ttl.sh/ubuntu/ubuntu-focal-fips:latest
   ```

10. Push the image to the repository.

    ```shell
    docker push ttl.sh/ubuntu/ubuntu-focal-fips:latest
    ```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

### Build Edge Installer ISO

11. Return to the **CanvOS** directory.

    ```shell
    cd ..
    ```

12. Create a file named **.arg**. This file will contain parameters that customize the Edge Installer ISO build.

13. In the **.arg** file, provide the following required information. Refer to
    [Edge Artifact Build Configuration](arg.md) for more information.

    | Argument         | Description                                                                                                                                                       |
    | ---------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
    | IMAGE_REGISTRY   | The image registry to use for tagging the generated provider images.                                                                                              |
    | OS_DISTRIBUTION  | The OS distribution in your provider image.                                                                                                                       |
    | IMAGE_REPO       | The image repository to use for tagging the generated provider images.                                                                                            |
    | OS_VERSION       | The OS version in your provider image. This applies to Ubuntu only.                                                                                               |
    | K8S_DISTRIBUTION | The Kubernetes distribution for your provider image. Allowed values are `rke2` (RKE2) and `kubeadm-fips` (PXK-E). The other distributions are not FIPS-compliant. |
    | FIPS_ENABLED     | Whether to enable FIPS compliance. This parameter must be set to `true`.                                                                                          |
    | ARCH             | The architecture of the image. Allowed values are `amd64` and `arm64`.                                                                                            |
    | BASE_IMAGE       | The base image used by EdgeForge to build the Edge Installer and provider images. This must be the same image that you build in the previous step.                |
    | ISO_NAME         | The file name of the ISO file that will be generated.                                                                                                             |

14. Create a file named **user-data**. Add the following blocks to the root level of the **user-data** file. Replace the
    value for `edgeHostToken` with your VerteX registration token, and replace the value `paletteEndPoint` with the URL
    of your VerteX instance.

    ```yaml
    install:
      grub_options:
        extra_cmdline: "fips=1"

    stylus:
      site:
        edgeHostToken: ********
        paletteEndpoint: https://vertex.palette-devx.spectrocloud.com
    ```

15. Add further customization to the **user-data** file as needed. This file configures the Edge Installer. Refer to
    [Installer Reference](../../edge-configuration/installer-reference.md) for more information.

16. Issue the following command to build the Edge Installer ISO.

    ```shell
    ./earthly.sh +iso
    ```

    When the build finishes, the ISO file will be generated in the **build** directory under the name you specified in
    your **.arg** file.

### Build Provider Images

Provider images are Kairos-based container images for a supported OS and Kubernetes distribution combination.
FIPS-complaint provider images are built on top of the base OS image you have built previously.

17. Locate **Earthfile** in the CanvOS directory. In the file, find the block that starts with
    `build-provider-images-fips:` and delete the Kubernetes versions that you do not want. This will speed up the build
    process and save storage space.

18. Review the **.arg** file again to ensure the parameters are correct. Issue the following command to build the
    provider images.

    ```shell
      ./earthly +build-provider-images-fips
    ```

    :::warning

    For the Kubernetes distribution set in your **.arg** file, only `rke2` and `kubeadm-fips` will produce
    FIPS-compliant provider images.

    :::

## Validate

1. Follow the [Site Installation](../../site-deployment/stage.md) guide to install the Palette Edge on your Edge host.

2. Issue the following command and ensure that the output is `1`. This means the OS is FIPS enabled.

   ```shell
   cat /proc/sys/crypto/fips_enabled
   ```

Commit message:

docs: change fips build branch

docs/docs-content/clusters/edge/edgeforge-workflow/palette-canvos/fips.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: "Build FIPS-Compliant Edge Artifacts"
title: "Build FIPS-Compliant Edge Artifacts"
description: "Learn how to build Edge Installer ISO and provider images to install FIPS-compliant Palette Edge."
icon: ""
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 30
tags: ["edge"]
---

Palette Edge supports
[Federal Information Processing Standards](https://www.nist.gov/standardsgov/compliance-faqs-federal-information-processing-standards-fips)
(FIPS)-compliant Edge clusters. To deploy a FIPS-compliant Edge cluster, you need to build FIPS-enabled Edge artifacts.
Both the Edge Installer ISO and the provider images must be FIPS-compliant.

This page guides you through the process of building FIPS-compliant Edge Installer ISO and provider images.

## Prerequisites

- A physical or virtual Linux machine with _AMD64_ (also known as _x86_64_) processor architecture to build the Edge
  artifacts. You can issue the following command in the terminal to check your processor architecture.

  ```bash
  uname -m
  ```

- Minimum hardware configuration of the Linux machine:

  - 4 CPU
  - 8 GB memory
  - 50 GB storage

- Depending on the Operating System (OS) you want to use on your Edge host, you will need the following subscription
  credentials:

  - Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL): RHEL subscription token.
  - Ubuntu Pro: Ubuntu Pro subscription token.

  Contact your system administrator for access to the subscription credentials.

- [Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads). You can ensure git installation by issuing the `git --version` command.

- [Docker Engine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) version 18.09.x or later. You can use the `docker --version`
  command to check the existing Docker version. You should have root-level or `sudo` privileges on your Linux machine to
  create privileged containers.

- A [VerteX](/docs/docs-content/vertex/vertex.md) account. Refer to
  [Palette VerteX](/docs/docs-content/vertex/vertex.md#access-palette-vertex) for information on how to set up a VerteX
  account.

- VerteX registration token for pairing Edge hosts with VerteX. You will need tenant admin access to VerteX to generate
  a new registration token. For detailed instructions, refer to the
  [Create Registration Token](/clusters/edge/site-deployment/site-installation/create-registration-token) guide.

## Build FIPS-Enabled Edge Artifacts

### Clone CanvOS Repository

1. Clone the [CanvOS](https://github.com/spectrocloud/CanvOS) GitHub repository containing the starter code.

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/spectrocloud/CanvOS.git
   ```

2. Change to the **CanvOS/** directory.

   ```bash
   cd CanvOS
   ```

3. View the available tags and check out the latest tag or any specific version of your choosing.

   ```bash
   git tag
   ```

### Build FIPS-Compliant Base OS Image

Before you can build the Edge Installer ISO or the provider images, you need to build a FIPS-compliant OS base image
with the Kairos framework. This base image is then used to build the final Edge artifacts.

Palette supports the RHEL and Ubuntu for FIPS-compliant base OS images. Choose the OS that you want to build the base
image with.

<Tabs>

<TabItem label="Red Hat Enterprise Linux" value="rhel">

5. Change into the **rhel-fips** directory.

6. In the file **Dockerfile**, provide your RHEL subscription username and password.

   ```text
   ARG USERNAME=name@spectrocloud.com
   ARG PASSWORD=***********
   ```

7. Issue the following command to start building the provider images.

   ```shell
   bash build.sh
   ```

   :::info

   If you experience issues with the script not recognizing the RHEL credentials, try searching **Dockerfile** for the
   following line and replacing the credentials directly:

   ```dockerfile
   RUN rm /etc/rhsm-host && subscription-manager register --username 'your-username' --password '*******' \
   ```

   :::

8. When the build finishes, issue `docker images` and confirm there is an image named `rhel-byoi-fips:latest`. This is
   the base image that you will use to build provider images and the Edge installer ISO later on.

9. Tag the image with a repository that is accessible by your Linux machine. For example, the following command uses the
   publicly accessible `ttl.sh` repository.

   ```shell
   docker tag rhel-byoi-fips:latest ttl.sh/rhel/rhel-byoi-fips:latest
   ```

10. Push the image to the repository.

    ```shell
    docker push ttl.sh/rhel/rhel-byoi-fips:latest
    ```

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Ubuntu" value="ubuntu">

5. Change into the **ubuntu-fips** directory.

6. In the file **pro-attach-config.yaml**, provide your Ubuntu Pro subscription token.

   ```yaml
   token: *******
   ```

7. Issue the following command to start building the provider images.

   ```shell
   bash build.sh
   ```

8. When the build finishes, issue `docker images` and confirm there is an image named `ubuntu-focal-fips:latest`. This
   is the base image that you will use to build provider images and the Edge installer ISO later on.

9. Tag the image with a repository that is accessible by your Linux machine. For example, use the publicly accessible
   `ttl.sh` repository.

   ```shell
   docker tag ubuntu-focal-fips:latest ttl.sh/ubuntu/ubuntu-focal-fips:latest
   ```

10. Push the image to the repository.

    ```shell
    docker push ttl.sh/ubuntu/ubuntu-focal-fips:latest
    ```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

### Build Edge Installer ISO

11. Return to the **CanvOS** directory.

    ```shell
    cd ..
    ```

12. Create a file named **.arg**. This file will contain parameters that customize the Edge Installer ISO build.

13. In the **.arg** file, provide the following required information. Refer to
    [Edge Artifact Build Configuration](arg.md) for more information.

    | Argument         | Description                                                                                                                                                       |
    | ---------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
    | IMAGE_REGISTRY   | The image registry to use for tagging the generated provider images.                                                                                              |
    | OS_DISTRIBUTION  | The OS distribution in your provider image.                                                                                                                       |
    | IMAGE_REPO       | The image repository to use for tagging the generated provider images.                                                                                            |
    | OS_VERSION       | The OS version in your provider image. This applies to Ubuntu only.                                                                                               |
    | K8S_DISTRIBUTION | The Kubernetes distribution for your provider image. Allowed values are `rke2` (RKE2) and `kubeadm-fips` (PXK-E). The other distributions are not FIPS-compliant. |
    | FIPS_ENABLED     | Whether to enable FIPS compliance. This parameter must be set to `true`.                                                                                          |
    | ARCH             | The architecture of the image. Allowed values are `amd64` and `arm64`.                                                                                            |
    | BASE_IMAGE       | The base image used by EdgeForge to build the Edge Installer and provider images. This must be the same image that you build in the previous step.                |
    | ISO_NAME         | The file name of the ISO file that will be generated.                                                                                                             |

14. Create a file named **user-data**. Add the following blocks to the root level of the **user-data** file. Replace the
    value for `edgeHostToken` with your VerteX registration token, and replace the value `paletteEndPoint` with the URL
    of your VerteX instance.

    ```yaml
    install:
      grub_options:
        extra_cmdline: "fips=1"

    stylus:
      site:
        edgeHostToken: ********
        paletteEndpoint: https://vertex.palette-devx.spectrocloud.com
    ```

15. Add further customization to the **user-data** file as needed. This file configures the Edge Installer. Refer to
    [Installer Reference](../../edge-configuration/installer-reference.md) for more information.

16. Issue the following command to build the Edge Installer ISO.

    ```shell
    ./earthly.sh +iso
    ```

    When the build finishes, the ISO file will be generated in the **build** directory under the name you specified in
    your **.arg** file.

### Build Provider Images

Provider images are Kairos-based container images for a supported OS and Kubernetes distribution combination.
FIPS-complaint provider images are built on top of the base OS image you have built previously.

17. Locate **Earthfile** in the CanvOS directory. In the file, find the block that starts with
    `build-provider-images-fips:` and delete the Kubernetes versions that you do not want. This will speed up the build
    process and save storage space.

18. Review the **.arg** file again to ensure the parameters are correct. Issue the following command to build the
    provider images.

    ```shell
      ./earthly +build-provider-images-fips
    ```

    :::warning

    For the Kubernetes distribution set in your **.arg** file, only `rke2` and `kubeadm-fips` will produce
    FIPS-compliant provider images.

    :::

## Validate

1. Follow the [Site Installation](../../site-deployment/stage.md) guide to install the Palette Edge on your Edge host.

2. Issue the following command and ensure that the output is `1`. This means the OS is FIPS enabled.

   ```shell
   cat /proc/sys/crypto/fips_enabled
   ```
