---
title: "Palette Dev Engine"
metaTitle: "Palette Dev Engine "
metaDescription: "Explore Palette Dev Engine"
hideToC: false
fullWidth: false
---

import Tabs from 'shared/components/ui/Tabs';
import WarningBox from 'shared/components/WarningBox';
import InfoBox from 'shared/components/InfoBox';


# Overview

Palette provides a developer persona of the Palette operations in addition to the DevOps persona of creating, deploying, and managing applications in Palette. This persona is called Palette Dev Engine (PDE); the experience developers have while building, maintaining, testing, deploying, and monitoring applications through Palette. A developer can easily switch between these two personas - `App Mode and Cluster Mode`- through the Palette UI. We offer the PDE from two wide perspectives:

<br />


# Quick Start with Palette Dev Engine

The quick-start developer experience with Palette Dev Engine is exceptionally straightforward. We provide a smooth developer experience where anyone can log in to Palette Dev Engine and deploy their first application in just **three** steps.

|    |  |
|----|---|
|**Step 1** |[Login to Palette Dev Engine](/devx#loginoptions)|
|**Step 2** |Select an App Profile (we do offer a set of out-of-the-box profiles) or [Create an App Profile](/devx/app-profile) based on your use case|
|**Step 3** |Using the App Profile [deploy your application](/devx/apps)| 

Refer the below links to explore the Palette Dev Engine in depth ....

<br />

* **Sign up to Manage Apps**: As a free tier offering from Palette for Developers to [Land and Expand](/devx/dev-land-explore).


* **Sign up to Manage Clusters**: For [Enterprise Developers](/devx/enterprise-user) full Palette capabilities.

# Login Options

Palette provides two options of developer log in to the Palette Dev Engine console:

<br />

## Social Sign-In 

The developer can sign in directly to the Palette Dev Engine console using their social sign-in credentials, such as Google or GitHub. These developers are at benefit from using our complimentary resources to either:

<br />

* Provision a nested cluster to get full access to all the namespaces

* Deploy an application using an app profile that would spin up a nested cluster

In either case, they are governed by the quota set by Palette. There is no limit to the number of application profiles they can be modelled.

<br />

### Enable Social Sign-In

To enable social Sign In, the user as a Palette tenant admin need to set up SSO authentication in the Palette console.

* Log in to the Palette console as a Tenant Admin.


* Go to `Tenant Settings` and select `SSO` from the left main menu.


* From **Manange SSO** go to `Auth Providers` and toggle the `Enable Provider Login` button.


* Now select the social sign in platform the developers wants to use. We currently support Google and Git Hub based Sign In.


* Log out of the Palette console


* Login back to the Palette console selecting the social sign in platform enabled in the previous step. The log in can progress in two ways:

  * If there is no Tenant existing in that Log In, Palette will create a new Tenant under a new organization and then login to that tenant console.

  * If a Tenant already exist in that Log In, then Palette will directly log in the developer in to that Tenant console.
 
<br />

## Palette Sign-In

[Log in](/getting-started) to the Palette console using the Palette sign-in credentials and switch between Palette Dev Engine and DevOps console (`App Mode` to `Cluster Mode` to take full advantage of the Palette Platform. For this use case the developer can create the resources under their tenant scope as well as make use of the system scope resources. They can even launch the applications on the host cluster groups at their enterprise environment using the Palette nested clusters.


<br />
<br />
