---
title: "Virtual Machine Management"
metaTitle: "Palette VM Management"
metaDescription: "Learn about Palette's VM Management solution for managing containerized and virtualized applications."
icon: "server"
hideToC: false
fullWidth: false
---

import Tabs from 'shared/components/ui/Tabs';
import WarningBox from 'shared/components/WarningBox';
import InfoBox from 'shared/components/InfoBox';


# Overview

Palette Virtual Machine (VM) Management provides a unified platform for managing containerized and virtualized applications. This solution, which requires a VM Management license, allows organizations to onboard, deploy, manage, and scale VMs within the same cluster as their containerized applications. VM Management simplifies managing infrastructure, improves resource utilization, and removes the cost of having a hypervisor.

Palette VM Management achieves a Kubernetes-native experience through its Spectro VM Dashboard add-on pack, which provides a user-friendly web console interface to manage virtual machines.

VM Management does not support Edge native environments or K3s.


# Use Cases

VM Management is particularly suitable in the following scenarios: 

<br />

- Organizations that want to remove their virtualization infrastructure due to an aging environment or to reduce costs. Using VM Management, legacy applications can run on virtual machines alongside modern, containerized applications. 


- Edge locations that have only a few virtual machines running, and a hypervisor is no longer desired.

# Prerequisites


VM Management requires the following:

<br />

- Palette version 3.3.0 or higher.


- Production VMs are supported on bare metal Kubernetes clusters deployed on Canonical MAAS. To learn how to configure MAAS and create MAAS clusters in Palette, refer to the [Install and Manage MAAS Gateway](/clusters/data-center/maas/install-manage-maas-pcg) guide.


- VMs with Persistent Volume Claim (PVC) must have a StorageClass that supports ``ReadWriteMany`` (``RWX``) access mode. This provides seamless VM migration during Kubernetes upgrades.

<br />

<WarningBox>

In environments that use nested virtualization, where VMs run inside of VMs due to lack of hardware to host VMs, it is technically possible to run VMs on Kubernetes by setting the KubeVirt resource ``useEmulation`` to true. However, we do not recommend this approach.

</WarningBox>


# Access VM Management

To request access to the VM Management solution, please contact our support team by sending an email to support@spectrocloud.com. Kindly provide the following information in your email:

- Your full name
- Organization name (if applicable)
- Email address
- Phone number (optional)
- A brief description of your intended use for the Palette Self-host installer image.

Our dedicated support team will promptly get in touch with you to provide the necessary assistance and share credentials and an endpoint URL to access the registry that stores the Spectro VM Dashboard pack. 

When you receive the credentials and URL, you will need to register the pack in your environment. To learn how, refer to [Configure the custom pack registry in Palette](/registries-and-packs/adding-a-custom-registry#configureacustompackregistryonthepaletteconsole).


# Get Started With VM Management

When you receive credentials and registry information from Spectro Cloud, you will need to register the Spectro VM Dashboard pack in your Palette environment. Follow steps in [Configure a Custom Pack Registry](https://docs.spectrocloud.com/registries-and-packs/adding-a-custom-registry#configureacustompackregistryonthepaletteconsole) and provide the Palette registry URL as the endpoint.

To start with VM Management, review [Dashboard Pack and Profile](/vm-management/vm-packs-profiles) to learn about components of the Spectro VM Dashboard integrated pack. Next, become familiar with the [Spectro VM Dashboard](/vm-management/vm-packs-profiles/vm-dashboard) and the web interface it provides to manage your VMs. 

Review [Create Spectro VM Dashboard Profile](/vm-management/vm-packs-profiles/create-vm-dashboard-profile) and [Enable Spectro VM Dashboard](/vm-management/vm-packs-profiles/enable-vm-dashboard) to learn how to create a cluster profile with the dashboard pack and gain access to the dashboard. 

The dashboard provides various methods to quickly deploy VMs from out-of-the-box templates or from your organization's templates. To learn more about using and creating templates, review [Deploy VM From a Template](/vm-management/create-manage-vm/standard-vm-operations/deploy-vm-from-template) and [Create a VM Template](/vm-management/create-manage-vm/create-vm-template). 


# Feature Gates

Palette's VM Management solution enables the following feature gates by default:

<br />

* LiveMigration
* Snapshot
* HotplugVolumes

Other feature gates you may find useful are those offered by KubeVirt, which you can enable using [Kubernetes feature gates](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/). KubeVirt is a component of the Spectro VM Dashboard pack that extends Kubernetes with additional virtualization resource types using Kubernetes Custom Resource Definitions (CRD) API. KubeVirt also includes controllers and agents that provide virtual machine management capabilities on the cluster. Through KubeVirt you can use the Kubernetes API to manage virtual machine resources similar to the way you manage Kubernetes resources. 

To enable KubeVirt feature gates, you can modify an existing KubeVirt custom resource and specify the features to enable. You can do this directly in the Spectro VM Dashboard pack by modifying ``kubevirt.kubevirtResource.additionalFeatureGates`` in the manifest. 

For more information on feature gates, refer to the [KubeVirt user guide](https://kubevirt.io/user-guide/operations/activating_feature_gates/).

# Resources

- [VM Management Packs and Profiles](/vm-management/vm-packs-profiles)


- [Spectro VM Dashboard](/vm-management/vm-packs-profiles/vm-dashboard)


- [Create Spectro VM Dashboard Profile](/vm-management/vm-packs-profiles/create-vm-dashboard-profile)


- [Enable Spectro VM Dashboard](/vm-management/vm-packs-profiles/enable-vm-dashboard)


- [Create and Manage VMs](/vm-management/create-manage-vm)


- [Deploy VM from a Template](/vm-management/create-manage-vm/standard-vm-operations/deploy-vm-from-template)


- [Create a VM Template](/vm-management/create-manage-vm/create-vm-template)


- [Standard VM Operations](/vm-management/create-manage-vm/standard-vm-operations)


- [VM Roles and Permissions](/vm-management/vm-roles-permissions)

<br />

<br />

<br />

<br />
