---
title: "Security"
metaTitle: "Spectro Cloud Security"
metaDescription: "Get an overview of Palette's security awareness and controls and where yo can report security issues."
icon: "lock"
hideToC: false
fullWidth: false
---

# Overview

We view security as more than a feature. It is a fundamental aspect of our business and culture through transparency, continuous learning, and a security-first mindset. 

By instilling a sense of collective responsibility for security, everyone at Spectro Cloud contributes to our overall security posture. Our dedication to security helps protect your interests and enhances the quality and reliability of our software and services.

<br />

## Security Culture and Awareness

All employees at Spectro Cloud receive mandatory security training. Our developers receive additonal training focused on software security, as they are the first line of defense through secure coding practices. Our developers complete Open Worldwide Application Security Project (OWASP) Top 10 training to understand, identify and mitigate the most critical security risks and vulnerabilities that affect web applications.

<br />

## Secure Product Architecture

Palette uses a micro services-based architecture, and we take steps to ensure each service is secured. Product functionality is broken down logically into isolated services within containers. Containers are deployed in a Kubernetes cluster, called a management cluster, that Palette hosts and manages in SaaS mode or that users can host and manage in a self-hosted environment.

Palette supports three different architecture models: multi-tenant SaaS, dedicated SaaS, and self-hosted, which includes support for air gaped environment. These flexible deployment models allow us to adapt to existing requirements in terms of separating responsibilities and network restrictions.

<br />

- **Multi-tenant SaaS**: The management plane is hosted in AWS across three regions that Spectro Cloud manages: us-east-1, us-west-1, and us-west-2. Each customer occupies a tenant in our multi-tenant cloud environment. Our  Operations team controls when to upgrade the management plane.


- **Dedicated SaaS**: The management plane is hosted in a cloud or region that you specify in Spectro Cloud’s cloud account with a dedicated instance that we manage. In this scenario, you decide when to upgrade the management plane.


- **Self-hosted**: The management plane is hosted in your environment. It can be on-prem VMware vSphere, OpenStack, bare metal, or in a public cloud that manages your compute instances, or a managed Kubernetes cluster such as Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS), Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS), and Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE).

Palette’s robust security measures safeguard your data and ensure the integrity of our services. We adhere to industry-leading standards and continuously refine our practices to provide the highest level of security. Palette infrastructure safeguards data in your Kubernetes production environment with its zero-trust architecture, granular Role-Based Access Control (RBAC), read-only Linux distributions ([Kairos](https://kairos.io/)), and hardened clusters and Kubernetes packs. Review [Hardened Infrastructure](/security/hardened-infrastructure) to learn more.

Palette's security controls ensure data protection in SaaS operation at the management platform level and the [tenant](/glossary-all#tenant) cluster level. To learn more, refer to [SaaS Operation](/security/saas-operation). In self-hosted operation, where Palette is typically deployed on-prem behind a firewall, you must ensure security controls in your environment. Find out more about on-prem deployment in [Self-Hosted Operation](/security/self-hosted-operation).

<br />

## Transparency

We list any Common Vulnerabilities and Exposure (CVE) issues that affect Palette or any part of its infrastructure in our [Security Bulletins](/security/security-bulletins) along with the fix applied and any workarounds.

<br />

## Report Security Issues

Please contact our Security team at security@spectrocloud.com to report any security issues.


<br />

# Resources


- [Core Principles](/security/core-principles)


- [Lifecycle](/security/lifecycle)


- [Secure Development](/security/lifecycle/secure-development)


- [Release Process](/security/lifecycle/release-process)


- [Hardened Infrastructure](/security/hardened-infrastructure)


- [SaaS Operation](/security/saas-operation)


- [Self-Hosted Operation](/security/self-hosted-operation)


- [Security Bulletins](/security/security-bulletins)


<br />

<br />

<br />

<br />

