---
title: "Palette VerteX"
metaTitle: "Palette VerteX"
metaDescription: "Learn how Palette VerteX enables regulated industries to meet stringent security requirements."
icon: "shield"
hideToC: false
fullWidth: false
---

import Tabs from 'shared/components/ui/Tabs';
import WarningBox from 'shared/components/WarningBox';
import InfoBox from 'shared/components/InfoBox';


# Overview

Palette VerteX offers regulated industries, such as government and public sector organizations that handle sensitive and classified information simplicity, security, and scale in production Kubernetes.

# FIPS-Compliant

Palette VerteX integrates validated Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS) 140-2 cryptographic modules in Kubernetes clusters it deploys to ensure robust data protection for your organization’s infrastructure and applications. To learn more about our FIPS 140-2 certification, review [Spectro Cloud Cryptographic Module](https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/cryptographic-module-validation-program/certificate/4349). FIPS modules, which are accessible in our private artifact repository, extend Palette’s existing security features that include security scans, powerful RBAC, and tamper-proof edge device images. Palette VerteX protects sensitive data in clusters across edge, bare metal, on-prem data centers, air-gapped environments, and cloud. 

With its additional security scanning capabilities, Palette VerteX is designed to meet the stringent requirements of regulated industries. Palette VerteX operates on FIPS-compliant Ubuntu version 20.04.

Spectro Cloud has performed a categorization under FIPS 199 with (client/tenant) for the data types (in accordance with NIST 800-60 Vol. 2 Revision 1) to be stored, processed, and/or transmitted by the Palette Vertex environment. (client/tenant) maintains ownership and responsibility for the data and data types to be ingested by the Palette Vertex SaaS in accordance with the agreed upon Palette Vertex FIPS 199 categorization.


# Access Palette VerteX

To set up a Palette VerteX account, contact our support team by sending an email to support@spectrocloud.com. Include the following information in your email:

- Your full name
- Organization name (if applicable)
- Email address
- Phone number (optional)
- Target Platform (VMware or Kubernetes)
- A brief description of your intended use of VerteX


Our dedicated support team will promptly get in touch with you to provide the necessary assistance and share the installer image, credentials, and an endpoint URL to access the FIPS registry.

# Resources

- [FIPS-Compliant Components](/vertex/fips-compliant-components) 


- [Installation](/vertex/install-palette-vertex)


- [FIPS Status Icons](/vertex/fips-status-icons)


- [System Management](/vertex/system-management)




<br />

<br />


