docs/docs-content/clusters/edge/site-deployment/deploy-private-registry.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: "Deploy Cluster with a Private Registry"
title: "Deploy Cluster with a Private Registry"
description: "Instructions for creating an Edge Native Cluster Profile"
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 60
tags: ["edge"]
---

Palette Edge supports authentication with private image registries, which allows your cluster to pull images from a
private registry during deployment. You can configure your cluster to pull images from a private registry for both
cluster creation and cluster updates. To configure a cluster to pull images from a private image registry, provide the
registry URL and the credentials needed to authenticate with the registry in the cluster profile.

## Limitations

- A cluster cannot pull images from more than one private registry.

- If your private registry has TLS enabled, you can only configure a _new_ cluster to use a TLS certificate with a
  private registry. You cannot configure an existing cluster with a TLS certificate to communicate with your private
  registry.

- Palette Edge supports basic username/password authentication. Token authentication schemes used by services such as
  AWS ECR and Google Artifact Registry are not supported.

## Prerequisites

- At least one Edge host registered with your Palette account.

- A private image registry.

- A provider image you created in the EdgeForge process stored in your private image registry. For more information,
  refer to [Build Artifacts](../edgeforge-workflow/palette-canvos.md).

## Enablement

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com).

2. Navigate to the left **Main Menu** and select **Profiles**.

3. If you already have an Edge cluster profile you want to deploy the cluster with, select that profile and select
   **Create new version** to create a new version of the profile to save your changes.

   Otherwise, click **Add new profile** to create a new cluster profile.

4. Select the OS layer of your cluster profile. If you are creating a new profile, you will get to configuring the OS
   layer after filling out **Basic Information** and **Cloud Type**. You should choose the Bring Your Own OS (BYOOS)
   pack for your OS layer.

5. Update the `system.uri` parameter in the pack editor for your OS layer. Use the custom OS image you created in the
   EdgeForge process. Refer to the EdgeForge [Build Images](../edgeforge-workflow/palette-canvos.md) guide if you are
   missing a custom OS image. The following is an example configuration using the BYOOS pack with a custom OS image.

   ```yaml
   pack:
     content:
       images:
         - image: "{{.spectro.pack.edge-native-byoi.options.system.uri}}"
         # - image: example.io/my-other-images/example:v1.0.0
         # - image: example.io/my-super-other-images/example:v1.0.0

   options:
     system.uri: example.io/my-images/example-custom-os:v1.4.5
   ```

   :::warning

   If you have specified registry credentials in the `registryCredentials` field in the user data file during the
   EdgeForge process, the credentials provided in the cluster profile will be ignored. For more information, refer to
   [EdgeForge - Build Artifacts](../edgeforge-workflow/palette-canvos.md) and
   [Installer Configuration](../edge-configuration/installer-reference.md#external-registry).

   :::

6. At the root level of YAML for your OS layer, add the `providerCredentials` field to provide the credentials you need
   to authenticate with your registry. For more information about the `providerCredentials` field, refer to
   [Bring Your Own OS (BYOOS)](../../../integrations/byoos.md) pack page. The `providerCredentials.password` field will
   be masked when you provide it in the YAML file. You can also use a macro to store your credentials instead of
   providing it directly in the YAML file. For more information, refer to
   [Macros Support](../../cluster-management/macros.md):

   ```yaml {7-8}
   pack:
     content:
       images:
         - image: '{{.spectro.pack.edge-native-byoi.options.system.uri}}'
         # - image: example.io/my-other-images/example:v1.0.0
         # - image: example.io/my-super-other-images/example:v1.0.0
   providerCredentials:
     registry: <registry_domain or IP Address>
       # - e.x. registry: registry-1.docker.io
     user: user
     password: ******
     certificates: |
       -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
       MIIDVzCCAj+gAwIBAgIRANtGPo/hFkZtYRNw0KaeW54wDQYJKoZIhvcNAQELBQAw
       ----------------------------------------------------------------
       7OicCaV35lje5FSl0owu74ghAlCgMyAdKsJf615g1kKO4V5E2BMErd9Ibw==
       -----END CERTIFICATE-----

   options:
     system.uri: example.io/my-images/example-custom-os:v1.4.5
   ```

7. If you are updating an existing profile, click **Confirm changes**, and then click **Save changes** to publish the
   new version of your cluster profile. If you are creating a new profile, click **Next layer** and finish configuring
   the remaining layers.

8. If you already have an active cluster that is using the original version of the cluster profile, update the cluster
   so that it uses the new version of the cluster profile you just published. For more information about updating
   clusters, refer to [Update a Cluster](../../cluster-management/cluster-updates.md). This will trigger a full cluster
   repave since it includes an update to the OS layer of the cluster. To learn more about cluster repave behavior, refer
   to [Repave Behavior and Configuration](../../cluster-management/node-pool.md#repave-behavior-and-configuration).

   If you don't have an active cluster yet, deploy a new cluster with the profile you just created, and the cluster will
   pull images from the private registry you specified.

## Validate

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com).

2. Navigate to the left **Main Menu** and select **Clusters**.

3. Select the cluster that is using the profile with the registry credentials.

4. Navigate to the **Events** tab of the cluster to confirm if the cluster is instructed pull images from the private
   registry.

5. If the cluster is successfully provisioned and enters the **Running** state, then you have successfully configured
   the cluster to authenticate with and pull images from the private registry. If the cluster does not enter the
   **Running** state, navigate to the **Events** table and observe if the cluster is emitting errors related to image
   pulls.

Commit message:

docs: document edge management console (#2186)
* add instructions for first boot tui

* change page position

* remove QR code registration

* add cross reference

* add first boot condition

* add emc login functionality

* add draft on customizing ui

* add steps on creating local cluster

* modify build artifacts step

* docs: write about provider images

* add steps for building iso

* edit provider image

* docs: add upload content

* fix bad quotes

* fix broken link

* minor fixes

* add credential providing instructions

* fix tab item issue

* add instructions for exporting cluster definition

* add arg files instructions

* fix repeated word

* Optimised images with calibre/image-actions

* add info note on provider images page

* modify wording about user data

* add proxy configuration steps

* add new changes

* repeated word

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Karl Cardenas <karl@spectrocloud.com>

* small changes

* work on feedback

* Optimised images with calibre/image-actions

* Address feedback

* fix broken links

* fix broken links

* address comments

* address feedback

* address more comments

* address review comments

* add QR code registration back

* add note about proxy setting after reset

* add note about local registry

* Optimised images with calibre/image-actions

* docs: add note about duplicate profile layers

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Karl Cardenas <karl@spectrocloud.com>

* Update docs/docs-content/clusters/edge/edge-configuration/installer-reference.md

* fix tui acronym use

* docs: fix prereq

* update diagram

* Optimised images with calibre/image-actions

---------

Co-authored-by: Lenny Chen <lenny.chen@spectrocloud.com>
Co-authored-by: github-actions[bot] <41898282+github-actions[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Karl Cardenas <karl@spectrocloud.com>

docs/docs-content/clusters/edge/site-deployment/deploy-private-registry.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: "Deploy Cluster with a Private Registry"
title: "Deploy Cluster with a Private Registry"
description: "Instructions for creating an Edge Native Cluster Profile"
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 60
tags: ["edge"]
---

Palette Edge supports authentication with private image registries, which allows your cluster to pull images from a
private registry during deployment. You can configure your cluster to pull images from a private registry for both
cluster creation and cluster updates. To configure a cluster to pull images from a private image registry, provide the
registry URL and the credentials needed to authenticate with the registry in the cluster profile.

:::tip

You can use the [Harbor Edge-Native Config](../../../integrations/harbor-edge.md) pack to configure a local registry in
your Edge cluster. After the initial download of artifacts from the private registry, the cluster will redirect
subsequent image pulls to the local Harbor registry. This allows you to save network bandwidth and provision clusters
without a connection to external networks. For more information, refer to
[Enable Local Harbor Registry](../networking/local-registry.md).

:::

## Limitations

- A cluster cannot pull images from more than one private registry.

- If your private registry has TLS enabled, you can only configure a _new_ cluster to use a TLS certificate with a
  private registry. You cannot configure an existing cluster with a TLS certificate to communicate with your private
  registry.

- Palette Edge supports basic username/password authentication. Token authentication schemes used by services such as
  AWS ECR and Google Artifact Registry are not supported.

## Prerequisites

- At least one Edge host registered with your Palette account.

- A private image registry.

- A provider image you created in the EdgeForge process stored in your private image registry. For more information,
  refer to [Build Artifacts](../edgeforge-workflow/palette-canvos/palette-canvos.md).

## Enablement

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com).

2. Navigate to the left **Main Menu** and select **Profiles**.

3. If you already have an Edge cluster profile you want to deploy the cluster with, select that profile and select
   **Create new version** to create a new version of the profile to save your changes.

   Otherwise, click **Add new profile** to create a new cluster profile.

4. Select the OS layer of your cluster profile. If you are creating a new profile, you will get to configuring the OS
   layer after filling out **Basic Information** and **Cloud Type**. You should choose the Bring Your Own OS (BYOOS)
   pack for your OS layer.

5. Update the `system.uri` parameter in the pack editor for your OS layer. Use the custom OS image you created in the
   EdgeForge process. Refer to the EdgeForge [Build Images](../edgeforge-workflow/palette-canvos/palette-canvos.md)
   guide if you are missing a custom OS image. The following is an example configuration using the BYOOS pack with a
   custom OS image.

   ```yaml
   pack:
     content:
       images:
         - image: "{{.spectro.pack.edge-native-byoi.options.system.uri}}"
         # - image: example.io/my-other-images/example:v1.0.0
         # - image: example.io/my-super-other-images/example:v1.0.0

   options:
     system.uri: example.io/my-images/example-custom-os:v1.4.5
   ```

   :::warning

   If you have specified registry credentials in the `registryCredentials` field in the user data file during the
   EdgeForge process, the credentials provided in the cluster profile will be ignored. For more information, refer to
   [EdgeForge - Build Artifacts](../edgeforge-workflow/palette-canvos/palette-canvos.md) and
   [Installer Configuration](../edge-configuration/installer-reference.md#external-registry).

   :::

6. At the root level of YAML for your OS layer, add the `providerCredentials` field to provide the credentials you need
   to authenticate with your registry. For more information about the `providerCredentials` field, refer to
   [Bring Your Own OS (BYOOS)](../../../integrations/byoos.md) pack page. The `providerCredentials.password` field will
   be masked when you provide it in the YAML file. You can also use a macro to store your credentials instead of
   providing it directly in the YAML file. For more information, refer to
   [Macros Support](../../cluster-management/macros.md):

   ```yaml {7-8}
   pack:
     content:
       images:
         - image: '{{.spectro.pack.edge-native-byoi.options.system.uri}}'
         # - image: example.io/my-other-images/example:v1.0.0
         # - image: example.io/my-super-other-images/example:v1.0.0
   providerCredentials:
     registry: <registry_domain or IP Address>
       # - e.x. registry: registry-1.docker.io
     user: user
     password: ******
     certificates: |
       -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
       MIIDVzCCAj+gAwIBAgIRANtGPo/hFkZtYRNw0KaeW54wDQYJKoZIhvcNAQELBQAw
       ----------------------------------------------------------------
       7OicCaV35lje5FSl0owu74ghAlCgMyAdKsJf615g1kKO4V5E2BMErd9Ibw==
       -----END CERTIFICATE-----

   options:
     system.uri: example.io/my-images/example-custom-os:v1.4.5
   ```

7. If you are updating an existing profile, click **Confirm changes**, and then click **Save changes** to publish the
   new version of your cluster profile. If you are creating a new profile, click **Next layer** and finish configuring
   the remaining layers.

8. If you already have an active cluster that is using the original version of the cluster profile, update the cluster
   so that it uses the new version of the cluster profile you just published. For more information about updating
   clusters, refer to [Update a Cluster](../../cluster-management/cluster-updates.md). This will trigger a full cluster
   repave since it includes an update to the OS layer of the cluster. To learn more about cluster repave behavior, refer
   to [Repave Behavior and Configuration](../../cluster-management/node-pool.md#repave-behavior-and-configuration).

   If you don't have an active cluster yet, deploy a new cluster with the profile you just created, and the cluster will
   pull images from the private registry you specified.

## Validate

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com).

2. Navigate to the left **Main Menu** and select **Clusters**.

3. Select the cluster that is using the profile with the registry credentials.

4. Navigate to the **Events** tab of the cluster to confirm if the cluster is instructed pull images from the private
   registry.

5. If the cluster is successfully provisioned and enters the **Running** state, then you have successfully configured
   the cluster to authenticate with and pull images from the private registry. If the cluster does not enter the
   **Running** state, navigate to the **Events** table and observe if the cluster is emitting errors related to image
   pulls.
