docs/docs-content/clusters/edge/site-deployment/model-profile.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: "Model Edge Native Cluster Profile"
title: "Model Edge Native Cluster Profile"
description: "Instructions for creating an Edge cluster profile."
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 0
tags: ["edge"]
---

[Cluster profiles](../../../profiles/cluster-profiles/cluster-profiles.md) contain the desired specifications for your
Edge cluster. All Edge profiles require you to provide an Operating System (OS) pack, a Kubernetes pack, and a Container
Network Interface (CNI) pack. Unlike other types of profiles, Edge profiles does not require you to use a Container
Storage Interface (CSI) pack. This is because many Edge deployments are subject to hardware limitations and do not
require persistent storage. However, if your cluster needs to use persistent storage, you need to include a CSI pack.

As with any other environment in Palette, you can define additional add-on cluster profiles. You can use add-on profiles
to define integrations or applications that must be included when Palette deploys the cluster.

The following steps will guide you on how to create an Edge-type cluster profile.

:::info

This page covers modeling cluster profiles in
[Appliance Mode](../../../deployment-modes/appliance-mode/appliance-mode.md). You can also deploy a cluster at the Edge
using agent mode. Refer to [Agent Mode](../../../deployment-modes/agent-mode/agent-mode.md) for more information.

:::

## Prerequisites

- The OS layer expects a provider image reference, which is Kairos-based container image for specific OS and Kubernetes
  combinations you build during [EdgeForge](../edgeforge-workflow/edgeforge-workflow.md). You do not need to have built
  the provider image at the cluster profile modeling stage, but you need to know where the uploaded image will be and
  specify the image location in the `system.uri` parameter.

## Enablement

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com).

2. Choose the desired scope, project or **Tenant Admin**.

3. Navigate to the left **Main Menu** and select **Profiles**.

4. Click on **Add Cluster Profile**.

5. Provide **Basic Information**, such as profile name, description, and tags. Select **Full** and click on **Next**.

6. Select **Edge Native** as the **Cloud Type** and click on **Next**.

7. Select either **Public Repo** or **Palette Registry (OCI)** in the **Registry field**.

8. Select **BYOS Edge OS** in the **Pack Name** field and the pack version.

9. Click on the code editor button **\</\>** to open up the editor

   ![A view of the Kubernetes pack editor with a YAML configuration](/clusters_site-deployment_model-profile_byoos-pack-yaml.webp)

10. Update the `system.uri` parameter in the pack editor. Use the provider image you created in the EdgeForge process.
    If you have not built the image yet, fill the parameter with where the image will be uploaded to.

    Refer to the EdgeForge [Build Images](../edgeforge-workflow/palette-canvos/palette-canvos.md) guide for more
    information. The following snippet is an example where your cluster will expect a provider image at
    `example.io/my-images/example-custom-os:v1.4.5`. You must ensure that the image is uploaded to this location when
    you create the cluster.

    ```yaml
    pack:
    content:
      images:
        - image: "{{.spectro.pack.edge-native-byoi.options.system.uri}}"
        # - image: example.io/my-other-images/example:v1.0.0
        # - image: example.io/my-super-other-images/example:v1.0.0
      #drain:
      #cordon: true
      #timeout: 60 # The length of time to wait before giving up, zero means infinite
      #gracePeriod: 60 # Period of time in seconds given to each pod to terminate gracefully. If negative, the default value specified in the pod will be used
      #ignoreDaemonSets: true
      #deleteLocalData: true # Continue even if there are pods using emptyDir (local data that will be deleted when the node is drained)
      #force: true # Continue even if there are pods that do not declare a controller
      #disableEviction: false # Force drain to use delete, even if eviction is supported. This will bypass checking PodDisruptionBudgets, use with caution
      #skipWaitForDeleteTimeout: 60 # If pod DeletionTimestamp older than N seconds, skip waiting for the pod. Seconds must be greater than 0 to skip.

    options:
      system.uri: example.io/my-images/example-custom-os:v1.4.5
    ```

    :::info

    You can customize the node drainage behavior and specify additional images that you may have created that are part
    of the content bundle. Specify any additional image required by the cluster profile in the `images` section. Add an
    `- image: ` entry for each image you need to specify. Refer to the
    <VersionedLink text="BYOOS Pack" url="/integrations/packs/?pack=generic-byoi" /> resource to learn more about the
    pack details.

    :::

11. Specify any cloud-init stages in your OS pack. Cloud-init stages allow you to configure your OS declaratively. For
    more information about cloud-init stages, refer to [Cloud-init Stages](../edge-configuration/cloud-init.md).

12. Click on the **Next layer** button to continue.

13. Complete the cluster profile creation process by filling out the remaining layers.

You have successfully created a cluster profile that you can use to deploy Edge clusters.

## Validate

Verify you created a cluster profile for Edge hosts by using the following steps.

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com).

2. Choose the desired scope, project or **Tenant Admin**.

3. Navigate to the left **Main Menu** and select **Profiles**.

4. Use the **Cloud Types** **drop-down Menu** and select **Edge Native**.

5. Your newly created cluster profile is displayed along with other cluster profiles of the same type.

## Next Steps

Your next step in the deployment lifecycle is to prepare the Edge host for the installation. Use the
[Installation](../site-deployment/stage.md) guide to continue.

Commit message:

docs: add hint for placeholder value

docs/docs-content/clusters/edge/site-deployment/model-profile.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: "Model Edge Native Cluster Profile"
title: "Model Edge Native Cluster Profile"
description: "Instructions for creating an Edge cluster profile."
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 0
tags: ["edge"]
---

[Cluster profiles](../../../profiles/cluster-profiles/cluster-profiles.md) contain the desired specifications for your
Edge cluster. All Edge profiles require you to provide an Operating System (OS) pack, a Kubernetes pack, and a Container
Network Interface (CNI) pack. Unlike other types of profiles, Edge profiles does not require you to use a Container
Storage Interface (CSI) pack. This is because many Edge deployments are subject to hardware limitations and do not
require persistent storage. However, if your cluster needs to use persistent storage, you need to include a CSI pack.

As with any other environment in Palette, you can define additional add-on cluster profiles. You can use add-on profiles
to define integrations or applications that must be included when Palette deploys the cluster.

The following steps will guide you on how to create an Edge-type cluster profile.

:::info

This page covers modeling cluster profiles in
[Appliance Mode](../../../deployment-modes/appliance-mode/appliance-mode.md). You can also deploy a cluster at the Edge
using agent mode. Refer to [Agent Mode](../../../deployment-modes/agent-mode/agent-mode.md) for more information.

:::

## Prerequisites

- The OS layer expects a provider image reference, which is Kairos-based container image for specific OS and Kubernetes
  combinations you build during [EdgeForge](../edgeforge-workflow/edgeforge-workflow.md). You do not need to have built
  the provider image at the cluster profile modeling stage, but you need to know where the uploaded image will be and
  specify the image location in the `system.uri` parameter.

## Enablement

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com).

2. Choose the desired scope, project or **Tenant Admin**.

3. Navigate to the left **Main Menu** and select **Profiles**.

4. Click on **Add Cluster Profile**.

5. Provide **Basic Information**, such as profile name, description, and tags. Select **Full** and click on **Next**.

6. Select **Edge Native** as the **Cloud Type** and click on **Next**.

7. Select either **Public Repo** or **Palette Registry (OCI)** in the **Registry field**.

8. Select **BYOS Edge OS** in the **Pack Name** field and the pack version.

9. Click on the code editor button **\</\>** to open up the editor

   ![A view of the Kubernetes pack editor with a YAML configuration](/clusters_site-deployment_model-profile_byoos-pack-yaml.webp)

10. Update the `system.uri` parameter in the pack editor. Use the provider image you created in the EdgeForge process.
    If you have not built the image yet, fill the parameter with where the image will be uploaded to or fill it with a
    placeholder value and update it when you upload the image.

    Refer to the EdgeForge [Build Images](../edgeforge-workflow/palette-canvos/palette-canvos.md) guide for more
    information. The following snippet is an example where your cluster will expect a provider image at
    `example.io/my-images/example-custom-os:v1.4.5`. You must ensure that the image is uploaded to this location when
    you create the cluster.

    ```yaml
    pack:
    content:
      images:
        - image: "{{.spectro.pack.edge-native-byoi.options.system.uri}}"
        # - image: example.io/my-other-images/example:v1.0.0
        # - image: example.io/my-super-other-images/example:v1.0.0
      #drain:
      #cordon: true
      #timeout: 60 # The length of time to wait before giving up, zero means infinite
      #gracePeriod: 60 # Period of time in seconds given to each pod to terminate gracefully. If negative, the default value specified in the pod will be used
      #ignoreDaemonSets: true
      #deleteLocalData: true # Continue even if there are pods using emptyDir (local data that will be deleted when the node is drained)
      #force: true # Continue even if there are pods that do not declare a controller
      #disableEviction: false # Force drain to use delete, even if eviction is supported. This will bypass checking PodDisruptionBudgets, use with caution
      #skipWaitForDeleteTimeout: 60 # If pod DeletionTimestamp older than N seconds, skip waiting for the pod. Seconds must be greater than 0 to skip.

    options:
      system.uri: example.io/my-images/example-custom-os:v1.4.5
    ```

    :::info

    You can customize the node drainage behavior and specify additional images that you may have created that are part
    of the content bundle. Specify any additional image required by the cluster profile in the `images` section. Add an
    `- image: ` entry for each image you need to specify. Refer to the

    <VersionedLink text="BYOOS Pack" url="/integrations/packs/?pack=generic-byoi" /> resource to learn more about the
    pack details.

    :::

11. Specify any cloud-init stages in your OS pack. Cloud-init stages allow you to configure your OS declaratively. For
    more information about cloud-init stages, refer to [Cloud-init Stages](../edge-configuration/cloud-init.md).

12. Click on the **Next layer** button to continue.

13. Complete the cluster profile creation process by filling out the remaining layers.

You have successfully created a cluster profile that you can use to deploy Edge clusters.

## Validate

Verify you created a cluster profile for Edge hosts by using the following steps.

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com).

2. Choose the desired scope, project or **Tenant Admin**.

3. Navigate to the left **Main Menu** and select **Profiles**.

4. Use the **Cloud Types** **drop-down Menu** and select **Edge Native**.

5. Your newly created cluster profile is displayed along with other cluster profiles of the same type.

## Next Steps

Your next step in the deployment lifecycle is to prepare the Edge host for the installation. Use the
[Installation](../site-deployment/stage.md) guide to continue.
