_partials/self-hosted/appliance-framework/_installation-steps-prereqs.mdx, before:

---
partial_category: self-hosted
partial_name: installation-steps-prereqs
---

- Access to the Palette Artifact Studio to download the {props.iso} ISO. Refer to the Artifact Studio (link TBC)
  guide for instructions on how to access and download the ISO.

- A minimum of three nodes must be provisioned in advance for the Palette installation. We recommended the following
  resources for each node. Refer to the Palette <PaletteVertexUrlMapper edition={props.edition} text="Size Guidelines" palettePath="/install-palette#size-guidelines" vertexPath="/install-palette-vertex#size-guidelines"/> for additional sizing information.

  - 8 CPUs per node.

  - 16 GB memory per node.

  - 450 GB disk space per node.

    - The disk space must be split between at least two disks, with a minimum of 250 GB for the first disk and 200 GB
      for the second disk. The first disk is used for the ISO stack, and the second disk is used for the storage pool.

- The following network ports must be accessible on each node for Palette to operate successfully.

  - TCP/443: Must be open between all Palette nodes and accessible for user connections to the Palette management
    cluster.

  - TCP/6443: Outbound traffic from the Palette management cluster to the deployed cluster's Kubernetes API server.

- SSH access must be available to the nodes used for Palette installation.

- Relevant permissions to install Palette on the nodes including permission to attach or mount an ISO and set nodes to
  boot from it.

- You can choose to use either an internal Zot registry that comes with Palette or an external registry of your choice. Depending on your choice, you will need to provide the following information during the Palette installation process.

  <Tabs>

  <TabItem value="internal-zot-registry" label="Internal Zot Registry">

  - (Optional) A CA certificate for the Zot registry in Base64 format.

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="external-registry" label="External Registry">

  - The DNS/IP endpoint and port for the external registry.
  - The username for the registry.
  - The password for the registry.
  - (Optional) The Certificate Authority (CA) certificate that was used to sign the external registry certificate in Base64 format.

  <br />

  Ensure the nodes used to host the Palette management cluster have network access to the external registry server.

  </TabItem>

  </Tabs>

  <details>

  <summary> How to get Base64 encoded entries for a certificate </summary>

  You can get the Base64 encoded entry from your certificate by using the following command. Replace `<certificate-file>` with the filename of your certificate file.

  ```bash
  base64 --wrap 0 <certificate-file>
  ```

  </details>

- If you have an [Ubuntu Pro](https://ubuntu.com/pro) subscription, you can provide the Ubuntu Pro token during the
  Palette installation process. This is optional but recommended for security and compliance purposes.

- A virtual IP address (VIP) must be available for the Palette management cluster. This is assigned during the Palette
  installation process and is used for load balancing and high availability. The VIP must be accessible to all nodes in
  the Palette management cluster.

  <details>

  <summary> How to discover free IPs in your environment </summary>

  You can discover free IPs in your environment by using a tool like `arping` or `nmap`. For example, you can issue the
  following command to probe a CIDR block for free IP addresses.

  ```bash
  nmap --unprivileged -sT -Pn 10.10.200.0/24
  ```

  This command will scan the CIDR block and output any hosts it finds.

  ```shell hideClipboard title="Example nmap output"
  Nmap scan report for test-worker-pool-cluster2-6655ab7a-tyuio.company.dev (10.10.200.2)
  Host is up.
  All 1000 scanned ports on test-worker-pool-cluster2-6655ab7a-tyuio.company.dev (10.10.200.2) are in ignored states.
  Not shown: 1000 filtered tcp ports (no-response)
  ```

  For any free IP addresses, you can use `arping` to double-check if the IP is available.

  ```bash title="Example arping command"
  arping -D -c 4 10.10.200.101
  ```

  ```shell hideClipboard title="Example arping output"
  ARPING 10.10.200.101 from 0.0.0.0 ens103
  Sent 4 probes (4 broadcast(s))
  Received 0 response(s)
  ```

  If you receive no responses like the example output above, the IP address is likely free.

  </details>

Commit message:

docs: Management Appliance ISO is only supported on UEFI

_partials/self-hosted/appliance-framework/_installation-steps-prereqs.mdx, after:

---
partial_category: self-hosted
partial_name: installation-steps-prereqs
---

- Access to the Palette Artifact Studio to download the {props.iso} ISO. Refer to the Artifact Studio (link TBC)
  guide for instructions on how to access and download the ISO.

- A minimum of three nodes must be provisioned in advance for the Palette installation. We recommended the following
  resources for each node. Refer to the Palette <PaletteVertexUrlMapper edition={props.edition} text="Size Guidelines" palettePath="/install-palette#size-guidelines" vertexPath="/install-palette-vertex#size-guidelines"/> for additional sizing information.

  - 8 CPUs per node.

  - 16 GB memory per node.

  - 450 GB disk space per node.

    - The disk space must be split between at least two disks, with a minimum of 250 GB for the first disk and 200 GB
      for the second disk. The first disk is used for the ISO stack, and the second disk is used for the storage pool.

- The following network ports must be accessible on each node for Palette to operate successfully.

  - TCP/443: Must be open between all Palette nodes and accessible for user connections to the Palette management
    cluster.

  - TCP/6443: Outbound traffic from the Palette management cluster to the deployed cluster's Kubernetes API server.

- SSH access must be available to the nodes used for Palette installation.

- Relevant permissions to install Palette on the nodes including permission to attach or mount an ISO and set nodes to
  boot from it.

  :::caution

  The ISO is only supported on Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI) systems. Ensure that the nodes are set to boot from the ISO in UEFI mode.

  :::

- You can choose to use either an internal Zot registry that comes with Palette or an external registry of your choice. Depending on your choice, you will need to provide the following information during the Palette installation process.

  <Tabs>

  <TabItem value="internal-zot-registry" label="Internal Zot Registry">

  - (Optional) A CA certificate for the Zot registry in Base64 format.

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="external-registry" label="External Registry">

  - The DNS/IP endpoint and port for the external registry.
  - The username for the registry.
  - The password for the registry.
  - (Optional) The Certificate Authority (CA) certificate that was used to sign the external registry certificate in Base64 format.

  <br />

  Ensure the nodes used to host the Palette management cluster have network access to the external registry server.

  </TabItem>

  </Tabs>

  <details>

  <summary> How to get Base64 encoded entries for a certificate </summary>

  You can get the Base64 encoded entry from your certificate by using the following command. Replace `<certificate-file>` with the filename of your certificate file.

  ```bash
  base64 --wrap 0 <certificate-file>
  ```

  </details>

- If you have an [Ubuntu Pro](https://ubuntu.com/pro) subscription, you can provide the Ubuntu Pro token during the
  Palette installation process. This is optional but recommended for security and compliance purposes.

- A virtual IP address (VIP) must be available for the Palette management cluster. This is assigned during the Palette
  installation process and is used for load balancing and high availability. The VIP must be accessible to all nodes in
  the Palette management cluster.

  <details>

  <summary> How to discover free IPs in your environment </summary>

  You can discover free IPs in your environment by using a tool like `arping` or `nmap`. For example, you can issue the
  following command to probe a CIDR block for free IP addresses.

  ```bash
  nmap --unprivileged -sT -Pn 10.10.200.0/24
  ```

  This command will scan the CIDR block and output any hosts it finds.

  ```shell hideClipboard title="Example nmap output"
  Nmap scan report for test-worker-pool-cluster2-6655ab7a-tyuio.company.dev (10.10.200.2)
  Host is up.
  All 1000 scanned ports on test-worker-pool-cluster2-6655ab7a-tyuio.company.dev (10.10.200.2) are in ignored states.
  Not shown: 1000 filtered tcp ports (no-response)
  ```

  For any free IP addresses, you can use `arping` to double-check if the IP is available.

  ```bash title="Example arping command"
  arping -D -c 4 10.10.200.101
  ```

  ```shell hideClipboard title="Example arping output"
  ARPING 10.10.200.101 from 0.0.0.0 ens103
  Sent 4 probes (4 broadcast(s))
  Received 0 response(s)
  ```

  If you receive no responses like the example output above, the IP address is likely free.

  </details>
