_partials/self-hosted/appliance-framework/_upload-packs-enablement.mdx, before:

---
partial_category: self-hosted
partial_name: upload-packs-enablement
---

<Tabs>

<TabItem value="internal-zot-registry" label="Internal Zot Registry">

1. Navigate to the Artifact Studio through a web browser and click the **Build bundle** option.

2. Select the **{props.iso} Appliance** product on the **Product selection** step and build your pack
   bundles by following the prompts in the Artifact Studio.

   Refer to the Artifact Studio (link TBC) guide for detailed guidance on how to build pack bundles and verify the
   integrity of the downloaded files.

3. Download the pack bundles to your local machine. Each pack is downloaded in `.zst` format.

4. Log in to the Local UI of the leader host of the {props.version} management cluster. By default, Local UI is accessible
   at `https://<node-ip>:5080`. Replace `<node-ip>` with the IP address of the leader host.

5. From the left main menu, click **Content**.

6. Click **Actions** in the top right and select **Upload Content** from the drop-down menu.

7. Click the upload icon to open the file selection dialog and select the downloaded pack ZST files from your local
   machine. You can select multiple files at once. Alternatively, you can drag and drop the files into the upload area.

   The upload process starts automatically once the files are selected. You can monitor the upload progress in
   the **Upload Content** dialog.

   Wait for the **Upload Successful** confirmation message to appear.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="external-registry" label="External Registry">

1. Navigate to the Artifact Studio through a web browser and click the **Build bundle** option.

2. Select the **{props.iso} Appliance** product on the **Product selection** step and build your pack
   bundles by following the prompts in the Artifact Studio.

   Refer to the Artifact Studio (link TBC) guide for detailed guidance on how to build pack bundles and verify the
   integrity of the downloaded files.

3. Download the pack bundles to your local machine. Each pack is downloaded in `.zst` format.

4. Authenticate with your external registry using the command line or a GUI tool of your choice. The following examples
   demonstrate how to authenticate with an OCI registry using the [`oras`](https://oras.land/docs/) CLI tool.

   <Tabs groupId="oci-registry">

   <TabItem label="Harbor" value="harbor">

   Use `oras` to log in to your OCI registry. Replace the values below with your environment configuration values.
   If you are using a Harbor registry with a self-signed certificate, add the `--insecure` flag to the
   `oras` command.

   <Tabs>

   <TabItem label="Regular Certificate" value="regular-certificate">

   ```shell
   oras login <registry-url-or-ip> --username '<user-name>' --password '<password>'
   ```

   </TabItem>

   <TabItem label="Self-Signed Certificate" value="self-signed-certificate">

   ```shell
   oras login <registry-url-or-ip> --insecure --username '<user-name>' --password '<password>'
   ```

   </TabItem>

   </Tabs>

   </TabItem>

   <TabItem label="AWS ECR" value="aws-ecr">

   You can acquire the AWS ECR authentication command from the AWS ECR console. From the ECR repository details page,
   click on the **View push commands** button to access the command. Refer to the
   [AWS ECR Authentication](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECR/latest/userguide/getting-started-cli.html#cli-authenticate-registry)
   documentation for more information.

   <Tabs>

   <TabItem label="Private ECR" value="private-ecr">

   Use the following command to authenticate with AWS ECR. The output of the `aws` command is passed to `oras` to
   authenticate with the ECR registry. Replace the values below with your environment configuration values.

   ```shell
   aws ecr get-login-password --region <aws-region> | oras login --username <aws-username> --password-stdin <aws-ecr-url>
   ```

   </TabItem>

   <TabItem label="Public ECR" value="public-ecr">

   For a public image repository, use the `docker` CLI instead of `oras`. Replace the values below with your
   environment configuration values.

   ```shell
   aws ecr-public get-login-password --region <aws-region> | docker login --username <aws-username> --password-stdin <aws-ecr-public-url>
   ```

   </TabItem>

   </Tabs>

   </TabItem>

   </Tabs>

5. Upload the pack bundles to the OCI registry using the `oras` CLI tool. The following example commands upload a pack bundle
   to the OCI registry in the `spectro-content` base path. Replace the values below with your environment configuration values.

   <Tabs>

   <TabItem label="Harbor" value="harbor-upload">

   <Tabs>

   <TabItem label="Regular Certificate" value="regular-certificate">

   ```shell
   oras push <harbor-url-or-ip>/spectro-content/<repository-name>:<tag> --file <path-to-pack-bundle-zst>
   ```

   </TabItem>

   <TabItem label="Self-Signed Certificate" value="self-signed-certificate">

   ```shell
   oras push --insecure <harbor-url-or-ip>/spectro-content/<repository-name>:<tag> --file <path-to-pack-bundle-zst>
   ```

   </TabItem>

   </Tabs>

   </TabItem>

   <TabItem label="AWS ECR" value="aws-ecr-upload">

   ```shell
   oras push <aws-ecr-url>/spectro-content/<repository-name>:<tag> --file <path-to-pack-bundle-zst>
   ```

   </TabItem>

   </Tabs>

   :::tip

   Be aware of the timeout period for the authentication token. The process of uploading images and packages to an OCI
   registry can take approximately one hour. If the authentication token expires, you will need to re-authenticate to
   the OCI registry and restart the upload process.

   :::

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

Commit message:

docs: additional registry sync steps
(cherry picked from commit dbd92f0575ad06b6836a2a1aa43a01aebd4d5e29)

_partials/self-hosted/appliance-framework/_upload-packs-enablement.mdx, after:

---
partial_category: self-hosted
partial_name: upload-packs-enablement
---

<Tabs>

<TabItem value="internal-zot-registry" label="Internal Zot Registry">

1. Navigate to the Artifact Studio through a web browser and click the **Build bundle** option.

2. Select the **{props.iso} Appliance** product on the **Product selection** step and build your pack
   bundles by following the prompts in the Artifact Studio.

   Refer to the Artifact Studio (link TBC) guide for detailed guidance on how to build pack bundles and verify the
   integrity of the downloaded files.

3. Download the pack bundles to your local machine. Each pack is downloaded in `.zst` format.

4. Log in to the Local UI of the leader host of the {props.version} management cluster. By default, Local UI is accessible
   at `https://<node-ip>:5080`. Replace `<node-ip>` with the IP address of the leader host.

5. From the left main menu, click **Content**.

6. Click **Actions** in the top right and select **Upload Content** from the drop-down menu.

7. Click the upload icon to open the file selection dialog and select the downloaded pack ZST files from your local
   machine. You can select multiple files at once. Alternatively, you can drag and drop the files into the upload area.

   The upload process starts automatically once the files are selected. You can monitor the upload progress in
   the **Upload Content** dialog.

   Wait for the **Upload Successful** confirmation message to appear.

8. Log in to the {props.version} system console.

9. From the left main menu, select **Administration**, and then select the **Pack Registries** tab.

10. Select the three-dot menu for the **OCI Pack Registry** and click **Sync**.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="external-registry" label="External Registry">

1. Navigate to the Artifact Studio through a web browser and click the **Build bundle** option.

2. Select the **{props.iso} Appliance** product on the **Product selection** step and build your pack
   bundles by following the prompts in the Artifact Studio.

   Refer to the Artifact Studio (link TBC) guide for detailed guidance on how to build pack bundles and verify the
   integrity of the downloaded files.

3. Download the pack bundles to your local machine. Each pack is downloaded in `.zst` format.

4. Authenticate with your external registry using the command line or a GUI tool of your choice. The following examples
   demonstrate how to authenticate with an OCI registry using the [`oras`](https://oras.land/docs/) CLI tool.

   <Tabs groupId="oci-registry">

   <TabItem label="Harbor" value="harbor">

   Use `oras` to log in to your OCI registry. Replace the values below with your environment configuration values.
   If you are using a Harbor registry with a self-signed certificate, add the `--insecure` flag to the
   `oras` command.

   <Tabs>

   <TabItem label="Regular Certificate" value="regular-certificate">

   ```shell
   oras login <registry-url-or-ip> --username '<user-name>' --password '<password>'
   ```

   </TabItem>

   <TabItem label="Self-Signed Certificate" value="self-signed-certificate">

   ```shell
   oras login <registry-url-or-ip> --insecure --username '<user-name>' --password '<password>'
   ```

   </TabItem>

   </Tabs>

   </TabItem>

   <TabItem label="AWS ECR" value="aws-ecr">

   You can acquire the AWS ECR authentication command from the AWS ECR console. From the ECR repository details page,
   click on the **View push commands** button to access the command. Refer to the
   [AWS ECR Authentication](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECR/latest/userguide/getting-started-cli.html#cli-authenticate-registry)
   documentation for more information.

   <Tabs>

   <TabItem label="Private ECR" value="private-ecr">

   Use the following command to authenticate with AWS ECR. The output of the `aws` command is passed to `oras` to
   authenticate with the ECR registry. Replace the values below with your environment configuration values.

   ```shell
   aws ecr get-login-password --region <aws-region> | oras login --username <aws-username> --password-stdin <aws-ecr-url>
   ```

   </TabItem>

   <TabItem label="Public ECR" value="public-ecr">

   For a public image repository, use the `docker` CLI instead of `oras`. Replace the values below with your
   environment configuration values.

   ```shell
   aws ecr-public get-login-password --region <aws-region> | docker login --username <aws-username> --password-stdin <aws-ecr-public-url>
   ```

   </TabItem>

   </Tabs>

   </TabItem>

   </Tabs>

5. Upload the pack bundles to the OCI registry using the `oras` CLI tool. The following example commands upload a pack bundle
   to the OCI registry in the `spectro-content` base path. Replace the values below with your environment configuration values.

   <Tabs>

   <TabItem label="Harbor" value="harbor-upload">

   <Tabs>

   <TabItem label="Regular Certificate" value="regular-certificate">

   ```shell
   oras push <harbor-url-or-ip>/spectro-content/<repository-name>:<tag> --file <path-to-pack-bundle-zst>
   ```

   </TabItem>

   <TabItem label="Self-Signed Certificate" value="self-signed-certificate">

   ```shell
   oras push --insecure <harbor-url-or-ip>/spectro-content/<repository-name>:<tag> --file <path-to-pack-bundle-zst>
   ```

   </TabItem>

   </Tabs>

   </TabItem>

   <TabItem label="AWS ECR" value="aws-ecr-upload">

   ```shell
   oras push <aws-ecr-url>/spectro-content/<repository-name>:<tag> --file <path-to-pack-bundle-zst>
   ```

   </TabItem>

   </Tabs>

   :::tip

   Be aware of the timeout period for the authentication token. The process of uploading images and packages to an OCI
   registry can take approximately one hour. If the authentication token expires, you will need to re-authenticate to
   the OCI registry and restart the upload process.

   :::

6. Log in to the {props.version} system console.

7. From the left main menu, select **Administration**, and then select the **Pack Registries** tab.

8. Select the three-dot menu for your external registry and click **Sync**.

</TabItem>

</Tabs>
