docs/docs-content/vertex/supported-platforms.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: "Supported Platforms"
title: "Supported Platforms"
description: "Review the supported platforms for deploying Kubernetes clusters with Palette VerteX."
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 20
tags: ["vertex"]
keywords: ["self-hosted", "vertex"]
---

Palette VerteX supports the following infrastructure platforms for deploying Kubernetes clusters:

| **Platform** | **Additional Information** |
| --- |  --- |
| **AWS** |   Refer to the [AWS](#aws) section for additional guidance. | 
| **AWS Gov** |  Refer to the [AWS](#aws) section for additional guidance. |
| **Azure**|   Refer to the [Azure](#azure) section for additional guidance. |
| **Azure Gov**|   Refer to the [Azure](#azure) section for additional guidance. |
| **MAAS**|  Canonical Metal-As-A-Service (MAAS) is available and supported in VerteX.   | 
| **Edge**|  Edge deployments are supported in VerteX.  |
| **VMware vSphere** | VMware vSphere is supported in VerteX.  |

Review the following tables for additional information about the supported platforms. 

:::info
For guidance on how to deploy a Kubernetes cluster on a supported platform, refer to the [Cluster](../clusters/clusters.md) documentation.

:::


The term *IaaS* refers to Palette using compute nodes that are not managed by a cloud provider, such as bare metal servers or virtual machines.  

#### AWS 

VerteX supports the following AWS services.

|  **Service** | **AWS Gov Support?**| 
| --- |  --- | 
| **IaaS** |  ✅ | 
| **EKS**|  ✅ |


#### Azure

VerteX supports the following Azure services.

|  **Service** | **Azure Gov Support?**|
| --- |  --- |
| **IaaS** |  ❌ |


#### VMware vSphere

The following versions of VMware vSphere are supported in VerteX.

| **Version** | **Supported?** |
| --- |  --- |
| **vSphere 6.7** |  ✅ |
| **vSphere 7.0** |  ✅ |
| **vSphere 8.0** |  ✅ |

Commit message:

docs: added Azure regions and updated symbol DOC-958

docs/docs-content/vertex/supported-platforms.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: "Supported Platforms"
title: "Supported Platforms"
description: "Review the supported platforms for deploying Kubernetes clusters with Palette VerteX."
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 20
tags: ["vertex"]
keywords: ["self-hosted", "vertex"]
---

Palette VerteX supports the following infrastructure platforms for deploying Kubernetes clusters:

| **Platform** | **Additional Information** |
| --- |  --- |
| **AWS** |   Refer to the [AWS](#aws) section for additional guidance. | 
| **AWS Gov** |  Refer to the [AWS](#aws) section for additional guidance. |
| **Azure**|   Refer to the [Azure](#azure) section for additional guidance. |
| **Azure Gov**|   Refer to the [Azure](#azure) section for additional guidance. |
| **MAAS**|  Canonical Metal-As-A-Service (MAAS) is available and supported in VerteX.   | 
| **Edge**|  Edge deployments are supported in VerteX.  |
| **VMware vSphere** | VMware vSphere is supported in VerteX.  |

Review the following tables for additional information about the supported platforms. 

:::info
For guidance on how to deploy a Kubernetes cluster on a supported platform, refer to the [Cluster](../clusters/clusters.md) documentation.

:::


The term *IaaS* refers to Palette using compute nodes that are not managed by a cloud provider, such as bare metal servers or virtual machines.  

#### AWS 

VerteX supports the following AWS services.

|  **Service** | **AWS Gov Support?**| 
| --- |  --- | 
| **IaaS** |  ✅ | 
| **EKS**|  ✅ |


#### Azure

VerteX supports the following Azure services.

|  **Service** | **Azure Gov Support?**|
| --- |  --- |
| **IaaS** |  ✅ |

Azure Government supports all Azure Government regions with the exception of Azure Government DoD regions. Refer to the [offical Azure Government documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-government/documentation-government-overview-dod) to learn more about the available regions.


#### VMware vSphere

The following versions of VMware vSphere are supported in VerteX.

| **Version** | **Supported?** |
| --- |  --- |
| **vSphere 6.7** |  ✅ |
| **vSphere 7.0** |  ✅ |
| **vSphere 8.0** |  ✅ |
