docs/docs-content/clusters/cluster-groups/ingress-cluster-group.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: "Set Up Ingress"
title: "Set Up Ingress for Cluster Groups"
description: "Learn how to configure Ingress for a Palette Cluster Group"
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 20
tags: ["clusters", "cluster groups"]
---



Cluster Groups may have a cluster endpoint type of either Load Balancer or Ingress. The cluster endpoint type determines how Palette Virtual Clusters deployed in a Cluster Group are exposed. You specify the cluster endpoint in Cluster Group Settings.

Using **Ingress** as the cluster endpoint type is a more cost effective way to access your Kubernetes workloads than using type **Load Balancer**, which requires a new cloud Load Balancer to be provisioned for each virtual cluster.

When you enable **Ingress** as the endpoint for a Cluster Group, you must deploy an [Ingress Controller](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress-controllers) add-on profile, such as NGINX, on each host cluster in the Cluster Group. The Ingress Controller provides the necessary routing functionality for external traffic to reach the Kubernetes API server of each virtual cluster, as well as any apps each virtual cluster contains. 

## Prerequisites

- At least one infrastructure or cloud-based cluster you’ve created.


- The Ingress Controller must have Secure Socket Layer (SSL) passthrough enabled so that Transport Layer Security (TLS) is not terminated at the ingress controller. Palette provides the ```nginx-ingress``` add-on profile with SSL passthrough already enabled. The following example shows how SSL-passthrough is enabled for the NGINX Ingress Controller. You would add an equivalent configuration to the profile of the add-on you are using. <br /><br />

   ```yaml
  charts:
    ingress-nginx:
      controller:
        extraArgs: 
          enable-ssl-passthrough: true  
  ```
 

 - Palette's ```nginx-ingress``` add-on profile automatically reroutes inbound requests from port 6443 to port 443 using a TCP service configuration. This is so that TLS termination on port 443 for all Apps can occur at the cloud load balancer while simultaneously allowing connections to the API servers of your Virtual Clusters on port 6443. 
 
 If you are using an ingress controller other than the NGINX Ingress Controller and would like to terminate TLS at your ingress controller's cloud load balancer, an equivalent TCP service configuration would be required. Alternatively, you may handle all TLS termination inside the cluster by configuring Cert Manager to issue a certificate for each App's Ingress.<br /> 
 
 The following example shows how port rerouting is achieved for the NGINX Ingress Controller. You would add an equivalent Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) service configuration to the profile of the add-on you are using. <br /><br />

    ```yaml
    tcp:   
      6443: "nginx/nginx-ingress-controller:443"  
    ```

## Set Up Ingress

The following steps describe how to enable an Ingress Controller for a Cluster Group. You will use the `nginx-ingress` add-on profile, but you may choose another ingress controller.


1. Log in to Palette as **Tenant Admin**.


2. Identify each host cluster that requires the addition of an NGINX Ingress Controller profile.

    This can be:

    - All the host clusters in an existing Cluster Group, <br />
        or
    
    - Existing host clusters that you will add to a new Cluster Group. <br /><br />

3. Either add the `nginx-ingress` add-on profile to each host cluster, or manually configure your own ingress controller add-on profile with the customizations described in the [Prerequisites](ingress-cluster-group.md/#prerequisites) section. 
  
  a. From the **Main Menu**, choose **Clusters** and select a cluster.

  b. In the **Profile** tab, click **Add add-on profile (+)** and select `nginx-ingress`. 

  c. Confirm and save your changes.


4. For each host cluster with an ingress controller add-on profile deployed, follow these steps to open a web shell, identify the External-IP of the LoadBalancer Service, and copy the record you will need to create a canonical Name (CNAME) Domain Name System (DNS) record:

    a. From the **Main Menu**, select a cluster. The cluster **Overview** tab displays. 

    b. In the **Details** section beneath **Metrics**, click the **Connect** button next to the Kubernetes config file to open a web shell. 
    
    c. Invoke the following command to display the External-IP of the ```nginx-ingress``` LoadBalancer Service: <br /><br />

    ```
    kubectl -n nginx get service nginx-ingress-controller
    ``` 

    d. Copy the record to your clipboard or to a text file. You will use the External-IP address to create a CNAME DNS record.
    <br />

    e. Close the web shell.


5. Use your DNS provider to create a wildcard CNAME record that maps to the External-IP for the NGINX Ingress Controller. Paste the External-IP you copied from the web shell to create the CNAME record.

  :::info

  The CNAME record is also known as the host cluster DNS pattern.

  ::: 

<br />

6. Copy the CNAME record to your clipboard.


7. Ensure you are in Palette's Cluster Mode, under the Tenant Admin scope. From the **Main Menu**, select **Cluster Groups**, then select the Cluster Group that requires ingress. <br /> <br />
    a. From the **Host Clusters** tab, select **Settings > Clusters**.    

    b. Choose **Ingress** as the **Cluster endpoint type**.

    c. Paste the name of the wildcard CNAME record into the **Host DNS** field.

  :::info
  If you haven’t yet created a Cluster Group, you can configure each host cluster as described and add them to a new Cluster Group later.
  :::

## Validate

To validate that ingress is functioning as expected, do the following: 

1. From the **User Menu**, switch to App Mode and deploy a new virtual cluster. <br />
    To learn how to deploy a virtual cluster, check out the [Add Virtual Clusters to a Cluster Group](../palette-virtual-clusters/deploy-virtual-cluster.md) guide.


2. Use a web shell and type the following command to verify you can connect to the newly deployed virtual cluster:

  ```shell
   kubectl get namespaces
  ```
This should display a list of namespaces as shown in the example: 

  <br />

  ```shell
  NAME                               STATUS   AGE
  default                            Active   4d11h
  kube-system                        Active   4d11h
  kube-public                        Active   4d11h
  kube-node-lease                    Active   4d11h
  cluster-63c91f359ae82b46c9bad615   Active   4d11h
  app-gamebox-lb-spectro-gamebox     Active   4d11h
  ```

If an error message displays, it indicates something is wrong with the configuration. Verify the following:

- Each host cluster is deployed with NGINX Ingress Controller.

- The CNAME record correctly maps to the External-IP of the NGINX Ingress Controller’s LoadBalancer Service.

- Cluster Group Settings specify the Cluster endpoint type as **Ingress**, and **Host DNS** specifies the CNAME record you created.

Commit message:

docs: minor touches DOC-910 DOC-911 (#1779)
* docs: minor touches DOC-910 DOC-911

* docs: removed clipboard from output

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Lenny Chen <55669665+lennessyy@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Lenny Chen <55669665+lennessyy@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/docs-content/clusters/cluster-groups/ingress-cluster-group.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: "Set Up Ingress"
title: "Set Up Ingress for Cluster Groups"
description: "Learn how to configure Ingress for a Palette Cluster Group"
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 20
tags: ["clusters", "cluster groups"]
---



Cluster Groups may have a cluster endpoint type of either Load Balancer or Ingress. The cluster endpoint type determines how Palette Virtual Clusters deployed in a Cluster Group are exposed. You specify the cluster endpoint in Cluster Group Settings.

Using **Ingress** as the cluster endpoint type is a more cost effective way to access your Kubernetes workloads than using type **Load Balancer**, which requires a new cloud Load Balancer to be provisioned for each virtual cluster.

When you enable **Ingress** as the endpoint for a Cluster Group, you must deploy an [Ingress Controller](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress-controllers) add-on profile, such as Nginx, on each host cluster in the Cluster Group. The Ingress Controller provides the necessary routing functionality for external traffic to reach the Kubernetes API server of each virtual cluster, as well as any apps each virtual cluster contains. 

## Prerequisites

- At least one infrastructure or cloud-based cluster.


- The Ingress Controller must have Secure Socket Layer (SSL) passthrough enabled so that Transport Layer Security (TLS) is not terminated at the ingress controller. Palette provides the `nginx-ingress` add-on profile  where SSL passthrough can be enabled. The following example shows how you can enable SSL-passthrough for the Nginx Ingress Controller. 

   ```yaml {5}
  charts:
    ingress-nginx:
      controller:
        extraArgs: 
          enable-ssl-passthrough: true  
  ```
 

 - Palette's ```nginx-ingress``` add-on profile automatically reroutes inbound requests from port 6443 to port 443 using a TCP service configuration. This is so that TLS termination on port 443 for all Apps can occur at the cloud load balancer while simultaneously allowing connections to the API servers of your Virtual Clusters on port 6443. 
 
 If you are using an ingress controller other than the Nginx Ingress Controller and would like to terminate TLS at your ingress controller's cloud load balancer, an equivalent TCP service configuration would be required. Alternatively, you may handle all TLS termination inside the cluster by configuring cert-manager to issue a certificate for each application's ingress.<br /> 
 
 The following example shows how port rerouting is achieved for the Nginx Ingress Controller. You would add an equivalent Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) service configuration to the profile of the add-on you are using. <br /><br />

    ```yaml
    tcp:   
      6443: "nginx/nginx-ingress-controller:443"  
    ```

## Set Up Ingress

The following steps describe how to enable an Ingress Controller for a Cluster Group. You will use the `nginx-ingress` add-on profile, but you may choose another ingress controller.


1. Log in to Palette as **Tenant Admin**.


2. Identify each host cluster that requires the addition of an Nginx Ingress Controller profile.

    This can be:

    - All the host clusters in an existing Cluster Group, <br />
        or
    
    - Existing host clusters that you will add to a new Cluster Group. <br /><br />

3. Either add the `nginx-ingress` add-on profile to each host cluster, or manually configure your own ingress controller add-on profile with the customizations described in the [Prerequisites](ingress-cluster-group.md/#prerequisites) section. 
  
  a. From the **Main Menu**, choose **Clusters** and select a cluster.

  b. In the **Profile** tab, click **Add add-on profile (+)** and select `nginx-ingress`. 

  c. Confirm and save your changes.


4. For each host cluster with an ingress controller add-on profile deployed, follow these steps to open a web shell, identify the External-IP of the LoadBalancer Service, and copy the record you will need to create a canonical Name (CNAME) Domain Name System (DNS) record:

    a. From the **Main Menu**, select a cluster. The cluster **Overview** tab displays. 

    b. In the **Details** section beneath **Metrics**, click the **Connect** button next to the Kubernetes config file to open a web shell. 
    
    c. Invoke the following command to display the External-IP of the ```nginx-ingress``` LoadBalancer Service: <br /><br />

    ```shell
    kubectl get service nginx-ingress-controller --namespace nginx
    ``` 

    d. Copy the record to your clipboard or to a text file. You will use the External-IP address to create a CNAME DNS record.
    <br />

    e. Close the web shell.


5. Use your DNS provider to create a wildcard CNAME record that maps to the External-IP for the NGINX Ingress Controller. Paste the External-IP you copied from the web shell to create the CNAME record.

  :::info

  The CNAME record is also known as the host cluster DNS pattern.

  ::: 

<br />

6. Copy the CNAME record to your clipboard.


7. Ensure you are in Palette's Cluster Mode, under the Tenant Admin scope. From the **Main Menu**, select **Cluster Groups**, then select the Cluster Group that requires ingress. <br /> <br />
    a. From the **Host Clusters** tab, select **Settings > Clusters**.    

    b. Choose **Ingress** as the **Cluster endpoint type**.

    c. Paste the name of the wildcard CNAME record into the **Host DNS** field.

  :::info
  If you haven’t yet created a Cluster Group, you can configure each host cluster as described and add them to a new Cluster Group later.
  :::

## Validate

To validate that ingress is functioning as expected, do the following: 

1. From the **User Menu**, switch to App Mode and deploy a new virtual cluster. <br />
    To learn how to deploy a virtual cluster, check out the [Add Virtual Clusters to a Cluster Group](../palette-virtual-clusters/deploy-virtual-cluster.md) guide.


2. Use a web shell and type the following command to verify you can connect to the newly deployed virtual cluster:

  ```shell
   kubectl get namespaces --all-namespaces
  ```
This should display a list of namespaces as shown in the example: 

  <br />

  ```shell hideClipboard
  NAME                               STATUS   AGE
  default                            Active   4d11h
  kube-system                        Active   4d11h
  kube-public                        Active   4d11h
  kube-node-lease                    Active   4d11h
  cluster-63c91f359ae82b46c9bad615   Active   4d11h
  app-gamebox-lb-spectro-gamebox     Active   4d11h
  ```

If an error message displays, it indicates something is wrong with the configuration. Verify the following:

- Each host cluster is deployed with Nginx Ingress Controller.

- The CNAME record correctly maps to the External-IP of the Nginx Ingress Controller’s LoadBalancer Service.

- Cluster Group Settings specify the Cluster endpoint type as **Ingress**, and **Host DNS** specifies the CNAME record you created.
