docs/docs-content/user-management/saml-sso/saml-sso.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: "SAML and SSO Setup"
title: "SAML and SSO Setup"
description: "Detailed instructions on creating Single Sign-on to log in to Palette using SAML 2.0"
icon: ""
hide_table_of_contents: false
tags: ["user-management", "saml-sso"]
---

Palette supports Single Sign-On (SSO) with a variety of Identity Providers (IDP). You can enable SSO in Palette by using
the following protocols for authentication and authorization.

<br />

- Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML) - SAML is a standalone protocol that requires a centralized identity
  provider (IDP) to manage user identities and credentials. SAML supports SSO and is commonly used for enterprise
  applications.

- OpenID Connect (OIDC) - OIDC more modern protocol designed for web and mobile applications. OIDC is built on top of
  [OAuth 2.0](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6749), a widely used authorization framework. OIDC supports distributed
  identity providers and supports social login providers such as Google or GitHub.

Enable SSO by following our [Enable SSO in Palette](enable-saml.md) guide.

## Resources

- [Enable SSO in Palette](enable-saml.md)

- [Palette SSO with Azure Active Directory](palette-sso-azure-ad.md)

- [Enable SSO with Microsoft Active Directory Federation Service (AD FS)](palette-sso-with-adfs.md)

- [Palette SSO with Okta OIDC](palette-sso-with-okta.md)

- [Palette SSO with Okta SAML](palette-sso-with-okta-saml.md)

- [Palette SSO with OneLogin](palette-sso-with-onelogin.md)

- [Palette SSO with Keycloak](palette-sso-with-keycloak.md)

Commit message:

docs: DOC-489 OIDC w/ Entra ID (#1966)
* docs:MS Entra ID Docs

* docs:MS Entra ID Docs2

* docs: entra-id-instructions

* docs: entra-id-instructions-updates

* docs: entra-id-instructions-updates3

* docs: entra-id-instructions-updates4

* docs: entra-id images deleted

* docs: entra-id images_delete2

* Optimised images with calibre/image-actions

* docs: fixed issues breaking dev server

* docs: chore touch ups

* Optimised images with calibre/image-actions

* chore: vale feedback

* docs: updated main how-to

* docs: cleanup of last section

* Update palette-sso-with-entra-id.md

Updated grammar, moved Kubelogin architecture down with added comments and details.

* chore: fixed some styling for Jesse

* chore: minor indentation fixes

* Optimised images with calibre/image-actions

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: caroldelwing <carolina.delwing@spectrocloud.com>

* chore: feedback

* docs: DOC-489 final touches

---------

Co-authored-by: github-actions[bot] <41898282+github-actions[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Karl Cardenas <karl@spectrocloud.com>
Co-authored-by: caroldelwing <carolina.delwing@spectrocloud.com>

docs/docs-content/user-management/saml-sso/saml-sso.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: "SAML and OIDC SSO Setup"
title: "SAML and OIDC SSO Setup"
description: "Detailed instructions on creating Single Sign-on to log in to Palette using SAML 2.0"
icon: ""
hide_table_of_contents: false
tags: ["user-management", "saml-sso", "oidc", "saml", "sso"]
---

Palette supports Single Sign-On (SSO) with a variety of Identity Providers (IDP). You can enable SSO in Palette by using
the following protocols for authentication and authorization.

<br />

- Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML) - SAML is a standalone protocol that requires a centralized identity
  provider (IDP) to manage user identities and credentials. SAML supports SSO and is commonly used for enterprise
  applications.

- OpenID Connect (OIDC) - OIDC more modern protocol designed for web and mobile applications. OIDC is built on top of
  [OAuth 2.0](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6749), a widely used authorization framework. OIDC supports distributed
  identity providers and supports social login providers such as Google or GitHub.

Enable SSO by following our [Enable SSO in Palette](enable-saml.md) guide.

## Resources

- [Enable SSO in Palette](enable-saml.md)

- [Palette SSO with Azure Active Directory](palette-sso-azure-ad.md)

- [Enable SSO with Microsoft Active Directory Federation Service (AD FS)](palette-sso-with-adfs.md)

- [Palette SSO with Okta OIDC](palette-sso-with-okta.md)

- [Palette SSO with Okta SAML](palette-sso-with-okta-saml.md)

- [Palette SSO with OneLogin](palette-sso-with-onelogin.md)

- [Palette SSO with Keycloak](palette-sso-with-keycloak.md)

- [Palette SSO with Microsoft Entra ID](./palette-sso-with-entra-id.md)
