docs/docs-content/integrations/cni-flannel.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: "Flannel"
title: "Flannel"
description: "Flannel CNI pack in Palette."
hide_table_of_contents: true
type: "integration"
category: ["network", "amd64"]
sidebar_class_name: "hide-from-sidebar"
logoUrl: "https://registry.spectrocloud.com/v1/cni-flannel/blobs/sha256:24e56da9fc207788ba520cd00e31af042cfc9b00a3c21a5ad40a4dd592500589?type=image.webp"
tags: ["packs", "flannel", "cni"]
---

<RedirectPackPage packName="cni-flannel" />

## Versions Supported

<Tabs queryString="parent">
<TabItem value="0.23.x" label="0.23.x">

### Change the Backend

If you need to change the backend type or update the backend port due to firewall or other restrictions, you can do so
by updating the pack YAML. The parameters `charts.flannel.backend` and `charts.flannel.backendPort` can be used to
change the default behavior. Refer to the official
[backend documentation](https://github.com/flannel-io/flannel/blob/v0.23.0/Documentation/backends.md) to learn more
about supported backends.

```yaml
charts:
  flannel:
    backend: "vxlan"
    backendPort: 8472
```

### Change MTU

By default, Flannel will use the Maximum Transmission Unit (MTU) of the host interface. If you need to change the MTU,
you can do so by updating the pack YAML. The parameter `charts.flannel.mtu` can be used to change the MTU value.

```yaml
charts:
  flannel:
    mtu: 1500
```

### VXLAN Configuration

Additional parameters can be used to configure the VXLAN backend. The VXLAN configuration is commented out by default in
the pack YAML. Uncomment the parameters you want to use and update the values as needed. Refer to the
[VXLAN backend documentation](https://github.com/flannel-io/flannel/blob/v0.23.0/Documentation/backends.md) for
additional guidance.

```yaml hideClipboard
charts:
  flannel:
  VXLAN Configs:
    #VXLAN Identifier to be used. On Linux default is 1.
    vni: 1
    #Enable VXLAN Group Based Policy (Default false)
    GBP: false
    #Enable direct routes (default is false)
    directRouting: false
    #MAC prefix to be used on Windows. (Defaults is 0E-2A)
    macPrefix: "0E-2A"
    ? Wireguard Configs

    #UDP listen port used with IPv6
    backendPortv6: 51821
    #Pre shared key to use
    psk: 0
    #IP version to use on Wireguard
    tunnelMode: "separate"
    #Persistent keep interval to use
    keepaliveInterval: 0
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="0.22.x" label="0.22.x">

### Change the Backend

If you need to change the backend type or update the backend port due to firewall or other restrictions, you can do so
by updating the pack YAML. The parameters `charts.flannel.backend` and `charts.flannel.backendPort` can be used to
change the default behavior. Refer to the official
[backend documentation](https://github.com/flannel-io/flannel/blob/v0.22.3/Documentation/backends.md) to learn more
about supported backends.

```yaml
charts:
  flannel:
    backend: "vxlan"
    backendPort: 8472
```

### Change MTU

By default, Flannel will use the Maximum Transmission Unit (MTU) of the host interface. If you need to change the MTU,
you can do so by updating the pack YAML. The parameter `charts.flannel.mtu` can be used to change the MTU value.

```yaml
charts:
  flannel:
    mtu: 1500
```

### VXLAN Configuration

Additional parameters can be used to configure the VXLAN backend. The VXLAN configuration is commented out by default in
the pack YAML. Uncomment the parameters you want to use and update the values as needed. Refer to the
[VXLAN backend documentation](https://github.com/flannel-io/flannel/blob/v0.22.3/Documentation/backends.md) for
additional guidance.

```yaml hideClipboard
charts:
  flannel:
  VXLAN Configs:
    #VXLAN Identifier to be used. On Linux default is 1.
    vni: 1
    #Enable VXLAN Group Based Policy (Default false)
    GBP: false
    #Enable direct routes (default is false)
    directRouting: false
    #MAC prefix to be used on Windows. (Defaults is 0E-2A)
    macPrefix: "0E-2A"
    ? Wireguard Configs

    #UDP listen port used with IPv6
    backendPortv6: 51821
    #Pre shared key to use
    psk: 0
    #IP version to use on Wireguard
    tunnelMode: "separate"
    #Persistent keep interval to use
    keepaliveInterval: 0
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="0.21.x" label="0.21.x">

### Change the Backend

If you need to change the backend type or update the backend port due to firewall or other restrictions, you can do so
by updating the pack YAML. The parameters `charts.flannel.backend` and `charts.flannel.backendPort` can be used to
change the default behavior. Refer to the official
[backend documentation](https://github.com/flannel-io/flannel/blob/v0.21.5/Documentation/backends.md) to learn more
about supported backends.

```yaml
manifests:
  flannel:
    backend: "vxlan"
    backendPort: 8472
```

### Change MTU

By default, Flannel will use the Maximum Transmission Unit (MTU) of the host interface. If you need to change the MTU,
you can do so by updating the pack YAML. The parameter `charts.flannel.mtu` can be used to change the MTU value.

```yaml
manifests:
  flannel:
    mtu: 1500
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="0.20.x" label="0.20.x">

### Prerequisites

- Kubernetes version 1.22 or later.

## Parameters

The following table lists commonly used parameters for Flannel version 0.20.x. Refer to the pack YAML file for the
complete list of parameters.

| Parameter                                | Description                                                                                   | Default                                                               |
| ---------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `manifests.flannel.flannelNetwork`       | The IPv4 CIDR range to assign to the pod network. This should match the Kubernetes `PodCIDR`. | `192.168.0.0/16`                                                      |
| `manifests.flannel.cniPluginsImage`      | The image used for installing the core-cni-plugins through the _initContainer_.               | `gcr.io/spectro-images-public/release/cni-plugins/cni-plugins:v1.2.0` |
| `manifests.flannel.image_cni.repository` | The Flannel CNI image repository.                                                             | `docker.io/flannel/flannel-cni-plugin`                                |

## Usage

### Change the Backend

If you need to change the backend type or update the backend port due to firewall or other restrictions, you can do so
by updating the pack YAML. The parameters `charts.flannel.backend` and `charts.flannel.backendPort` can be used to
change the default behavior. Refer to the official
[backend documentation](https://github.com/flannel-io/flannel/blob/v0.21.5/Documentation/backends.md) to learn more
about supported backends.

```yaml
manifests:
  flannel:
    backend: "vxlan"
    backendPort: 8472
```

### Change MTU

By default, Flannel will use the Maximum Transmission Unit (MTU) of the host interface. If you need to change the MTU,
you can do so by updating the pack YAML. The parameter `charts.flannel.mtu` can be used to change the MTU value.

```yaml
manifests:
  flannel:
    mtu: 1500
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Deprecated" value="deprecated">

:::warning

All versions less than v0.20.x are considered deprecated. Upgrade to a newer version to take advantage of new features.

:::

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Terraform

Use the following Terraform snippet to reference the Flannel CNI pack in your Terraform template. Replace the version
number with the version you want to use.

```hcl
data "spectrocloud_registry" "public_registry" {
  name = "Public Repo"
}

data "spectrocloud_pack_simple" "flannel" {
  name    = "cni-flannel"
  version = "0.23.0"
  type = "helm"
  registry_uid = data.spectrocloud_registry.public_registry.id
}
```

## Reference

- [Flannel Documentation](https://github.com/flannel-io/flannel/tree/master?tab=readme-ov-file#how-it-works)

- [Configuration Options](https://github.com/flannel-io/flannel/blob/master/Documentation/configuration.md)

Commit message:

Adding additional VMXNET3 guidance due to known issue

docs/docs-content/integrations/cni-flannel.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: "Flannel"
title: "Flannel"
description: "Flannel CNI pack in Palette."
hide_table_of_contents: true
type: "integration"
category: ["network", "amd64"]
sidebar_class_name: "hide-from-sidebar"
logoUrl: "https://registry.spectrocloud.com/v1/cni-flannel/blobs/sha256:24e56da9fc207788ba520cd00e31af042cfc9b00a3c21a5ad40a4dd592500589?type=image.webp"
tags: ["packs", "flannel", "cni"]
---

<RedirectPackPage packName="cni-flannel" />

## Versions Supported

<Tabs queryString="parent">
<TabItem value="0.23.x" label="0.23.x">

### Change the Backend

If you need to change the backend type or update the backend port due to firewall or other restrictions, you can do so
by updating the pack YAML. The parameters `charts.flannel.backend` and `charts.flannel.backendPort` can be used to
change the default behavior. Refer to the official
[backend documentation](https://github.com/flannel-io/flannel/blob/v0.23.0/Documentation/backends.md) to learn more
about supported backends.

```yaml
charts:
  flannel:
    backend: "vxlan"
    backendPort: 8472
```

### Change MTU

By default, Flannel will use the Maximum Transmission Unit (MTU) of the host interface. If you need to change the MTU,
you can do so by updating the pack YAML. The parameter `charts.flannel.mtu` can be used to change the MTU value.

```yaml
charts:
  flannel:
    mtu: 1500
```

### VXLAN Configuration

Additional parameters can be used to configure the VXLAN backend. The VXLAN configuration is commented out by default in
the pack YAML. Uncomment the parameters you want to use and update the values as needed. Refer to the
[VXLAN backend documentation](https://github.com/flannel-io/flannel/blob/v0.23.0/Documentation/backends.md) for
additional guidance.

```yaml hideClipboard
charts:
  flannel:
  VXLAN Configs:
    #VXLAN Identifier to be used. On Linux default is 1.
    vni: 1
    #Enable VXLAN Group Based Policy (Default false)
    GBP: false
    #Enable direct routes (default is false)
    directRouting: false
    #MAC prefix to be used on Windows. (Defaults is 0E-2A)
    macPrefix: "0E-2A"
    ? Wireguard Configs

    #UDP listen port used with IPv6
    backendPortv6: 51821
    #Pre shared key to use
    psk: 0
    #IP version to use on Wireguard
    tunnelMode: "separate"
    #Persistent keep interval to use
    keepaliveInterval: 0
```

### Disable UDP Segmentation on VMXNET3 Edge Hosts

Due to a [known issue with VMware's VMXNET3 adapter](https://github.com/cilium/cilium/issues/13096#issuecomment-723901955),
which is widely used in different virtual machine management services, including VMware vSphere and Hyper-V, Flannel Pods may face network connectivity issues.

If deploying an Edge host in a virtual machine environment using an VMXNET3 adapter, add the following commands in the `user-data` file at the boot
stage. Replace `<interface-name>` with the name of the network interface on your Edge host.

  ```yaml {2-6}
  stages:
    initramfs:
      - name: "Disable UDP segmentation"
        commands:
          - ethtool --offload <interface-name> tx-udp_tnl-segmentation off
          - ethtool --offload <interface-name> tx-udp_tnl-csum-segmentation off
  ```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="0.22.x" label="0.22.x">

### Change the Backend

If you need to change the backend type or update the backend port due to firewall or other restrictions, you can do so
by updating the pack YAML. The parameters `charts.flannel.backend` and `charts.flannel.backendPort` can be used to
change the default behavior. Refer to the official
[backend documentation](https://github.com/flannel-io/flannel/blob/v0.22.3/Documentation/backends.md) to learn more
about supported backends.

```yaml
charts:
  flannel:
    backend: "vxlan"
    backendPort: 8472
```

### Change MTU

By default, Flannel will use the Maximum Transmission Unit (MTU) of the host interface. If you need to change the MTU,
you can do so by updating the pack YAML. The parameter `charts.flannel.mtu` can be used to change the MTU value.

```yaml
charts:
  flannel:
    mtu: 1500
```

### VXLAN Configuration

Additional parameters can be used to configure the VXLAN backend. The VXLAN configuration is commented out by default in
the pack YAML. Uncomment the parameters you want to use and update the values as needed. Refer to the
[VXLAN backend documentation](https://github.com/flannel-io/flannel/blob/v0.22.3/Documentation/backends.md) for
additional guidance.

```yaml hideClipboard
charts:
  flannel:
  VXLAN Configs:
    #VXLAN Identifier to be used. On Linux default is 1.
    vni: 1
    #Enable VXLAN Group Based Policy (Default false)
    GBP: false
    #Enable direct routes (default is false)
    directRouting: false
    #MAC prefix to be used on Windows. (Defaults is 0E-2A)
    macPrefix: "0E-2A"
    ? Wireguard Configs

    #UDP listen port used with IPv6
    backendPortv6: 51821
    #Pre shared key to use
    psk: 0
    #IP version to use on Wireguard
    tunnelMode: "separate"
    #Persistent keep interval to use
    keepaliveInterval: 0
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="0.21.x" label="0.21.x">

### Change the Backend

If you need to change the backend type or update the backend port due to firewall or other restrictions, you can do so
by updating the pack YAML. The parameters `charts.flannel.backend` and `charts.flannel.backendPort` can be used to
change the default behavior. Refer to the official
[backend documentation](https://github.com/flannel-io/flannel/blob/v0.21.5/Documentation/backends.md) to learn more
about supported backends.

```yaml
manifests:
  flannel:
    backend: "vxlan"
    backendPort: 8472
```

### Change MTU

By default, Flannel will use the Maximum Transmission Unit (MTU) of the host interface. If you need to change the MTU,
you can do so by updating the pack YAML. The parameter `charts.flannel.mtu` can be used to change the MTU value.

```yaml
manifests:
  flannel:
    mtu: 1500
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="0.20.x" label="0.20.x">

### Prerequisites

- Kubernetes version 1.22 or later.

## Parameters

The following table lists commonly used parameters for Flannel version 0.20.x. Refer to the pack YAML file for the
complete list of parameters.

| Parameter                                | Description                                                                                   | Default                                                               |
| ---------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `manifests.flannel.flannelNetwork`       | The IPv4 CIDR range to assign to the pod network. This should match the Kubernetes `PodCIDR`. | `192.168.0.0/16`                                                      |
| `manifests.flannel.cniPluginsImage`      | The image used for installing the core-cni-plugins through the _initContainer_.               | `gcr.io/spectro-images-public/release/cni-plugins/cni-plugins:v1.2.0` |
| `manifests.flannel.image_cni.repository` | The Flannel CNI image repository.                                                             | `docker.io/flannel/flannel-cni-plugin`                                |

## Usage

### Change the Backend

If you need to change the backend type or update the backend port due to firewall or other restrictions, you can do so
by updating the pack YAML. The parameters `charts.flannel.backend` and `charts.flannel.backendPort` can be used to
change the default behavior. Refer to the official
[backend documentation](https://github.com/flannel-io/flannel/blob/v0.21.5/Documentation/backends.md) to learn more
about supported backends.

```yaml
manifests:
  flannel:
    backend: "vxlan"
    backendPort: 8472
```

### Change MTU

By default, Flannel will use the Maximum Transmission Unit (MTU) of the host interface. If you need to change the MTU,
you can do so by updating the pack YAML. The parameter `charts.flannel.mtu` can be used to change the MTU value.

```yaml
manifests:
  flannel:
    mtu: 1500
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Deprecated" value="deprecated">

:::warning

All versions less than v0.20.x are considered deprecated. Upgrade to a newer version to take advantage of new features.

:::

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Terraform

Use the following Terraform snippet to reference the Flannel CNI pack in your Terraform template. Replace the version
number with the version you want to use.

```hcl
data "spectrocloud_registry" "public_registry" {
  name = "Public Repo"
}

data "spectrocloud_pack_simple" "flannel" {
  name    = "cni-flannel"
  version = "0.23.0"
  type = "helm"
  registry_uid = data.spectrocloud_registry.public_registry.id
}
```

## Reference

- [Flannel Documentation](https://github.com/flannel-io/flannel/tree/master?tab=readme-ov-file#how-it-works)

- [Configuration Options](https://github.com/flannel-io/flannel/blob/master/Documentation/configuration.md)
