docs/docs-content/integrations/cni-calico.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: "Calico"
title: "Calico"
description: "Reference documentation for the Calico pack in Palette"
hide_table_of_contents: true
type: "integration"
category: ["network", "amd64", "fips"]
sidebar_class_name: "hide-from-sidebar"
logoUrl: "https://registry.spectrocloud.com/v1/cni-calico/blobs/sha256:9a08103ccd797857a81b6ce55fa4f84a48bcb2bddfc7a4ff27878819c87e1e30?type=image.webp"
tags: ["packs", "calico", "network"]
---

<RedirectPackPage packName="cni-calico" />

:::warning

Limitations: AWS, VMWare supports IP-in-IP encapsulation type. Azure supports VXLAN encapsulation type.

:::

## Versions Supported

<Tabs queryString="parent">

<TabItem label="3.27.x" value="3.27.x">

### Create Bind Mounts for Edge Deployments

In Edge deployments, Calico requires a bind mount on the host machine. Without the bind mount, it's possible for the
Calico pods to be stuck in the init state. Use the following example to create a bind mount from `/var/lib/calico` on
the Edge host. When you build an installer ISO with the `bind_mounts` block, the folders specified in the block will be
mounted. For more information about building the installer ISO, refer to
[Build Installer ISO](../clusters/edge/edgeforge-workflow/palette-canvos/build-installer-iso.md).

```yaml
#cloud-config
stylus:
  site:
    debug: true
    insecureSkipVerify: false
    paletteEndpoint: api.console.spectrocloud.com
    name: edge-appliance-1
    caCerts:
      - |
        -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----

        -----END CERTIFICATE-----

install:
  bind_mounts:
    - /var/lib/calico
```

### Connectivity Issues in Virtual Machine Environments

Due to a
[known issue with VMware's VMXNET3 adapter](https://github.com/cilium/cilium/issues/13096#issuecomment-723901955), which
is widely used in different virtual machine management services, including VMware vSphere and Hyper-V, Calico Pods may
face network connectivity issues.

Before deploying clusters with Calico in VXLAN mode, disable checksum offloading on your virtual host using the
following the command. Replace `<interface-name>` with the name of the network interface on your host. Refer to
[Calico known issue #9433](https://github.com/projectcalico/calico/issues/9433) for more information.

```shell
ethtool --offload <interface-name> tx off
```

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->

Alternatively, if deploying an Edge host in a virtual machine environment using a VMXNET3 adapter and enabling an <VersionedLink text="overlay network" url="/clusters/edge/networking/vxlan-overlay" /> for your cluster, add the
following commands in the `user-data` file at the boot stage. Replace `<interface-name>` with the name of the network
interface on your Edge host.

<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

```yaml {2-6}
stages:
  initramfs:
    - name: "Disable UDP segmentation"
      commands:
        - ethtool --offload <interface-name> tx-udp_tnl-segmentation off
        - ethtool --offload <interface-name> tx-udp_tnl-csum-segmentation off
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="3.26.x" value="3.26.x">

### Create Bind Mounts for Edge Deployments

In Edge deployments, Calico requires a bind mount on the host machine. Without the bind mount, it's possible for the
Calico pods to be stuck in the init state. Use the following example to create a bind mount from `/var/lib/calico` on
the Edge host. When you build an installer ISO with the `bind_mounts` block, the folders specified in the block will be
mounted. For more information about building the installer ISO, refer to
[Build Installer ISO](../clusters/edge/edgeforge-workflow/palette-canvos/build-installer-iso.md).

```yaml
#cloud-config
stylus:
  site:
    debug: true
    insecureSkipVerify: false
    paletteEndpoint: api.console.spectrocloud.com
    name: edge-appliance-1
    caCerts:
      - |
        -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----

        -----END CERTIFICATE-----

install:
  bind_mounts:
    - /var/lib/calico
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="3.25.x" value="3.25.x">

### Create Bind Mounts for Edge Deployments

In Edge deployments, Calico requires a bind mount on the host machine. Without the bind mount, it's possible for the
Calico pods to be stuck in the init state. Use the following example to create a bind mount from `/var/lib/calico` on
the Edge host. When you build an installer ISO with the `bind_mounts` block, the folders specified in the block will be
mounted. For more information about building the installer ISO, refer to
[Build Installer ISO](../clusters/edge/edgeforge-workflow/palette-canvos/build-installer-iso.md).

```yaml
#cloud-config
stylus:
  site:
    debug: true
    insecureSkipVerify: false
    paletteEndpoint: api.console.spectrocloud.com
    name: edge-appliance-1
    caCerts:
      - |
        -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----

        -----END CERTIFICATE-----

install:
  bind_mounts:
    - /var/lib/calico
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="3.24.x" value="3.24.x">

### Create Bind Mounts for Edge Deployments

In Edge deployments, Calico requires a bind mount on the host machine. Without the bind mount, it's possible for the
Calico pods to be stuck in the init state. Use the following example to create a bind mount from `/var/lib/calico` on
the Edge host. When you build an installer ISO with the `bind_mounts` block, the folders specified in the block will be
mounted. For more information about building the installer ISO, refer to
[Build Installer ISO](../clusters/edge/edgeforge-workflow/palette-canvos/build-installer-iso.md).

```yaml
#cloud-config
stylus:
  site:
    debug: true
    insecureSkipVerify: false
    paletteEndpoint: api.console.spectrocloud.com
    name: edge-appliance-1
    caCerts:
      - |
        -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----

        -----END CERTIFICATE-----

install:
  bind_mounts:
    - /var/lib/calico
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="3.23.x" value="3.23.x">

### Create Bind Mounts for Edge Deployments

In Edge deployments, Calico requires a bind mount on the host machine. Without the bind mount, it's possible for the
Calico pods to be stuck in the init state. Use the following example to create a bind mount from `/var/lib/calico` on
the Edge host. When you build an installer ISO with the `bind_mounts` block, the folders specified in the block will be
mounted. For more information about building the installer ISO, refer to
[Build Installer ISO](../clusters/edge/edgeforge-workflow/palette-canvos/build-installer-iso.md).

```yaml {14-16}
#cloud-config
stylus:
  site:
    debug: true
    insecureSkipVerify: false
    paletteEndpoint: api.console.spectrocloud.com
    name: edge-appliance-1
    caCerts:
      - |
        -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----

        -----END CERTIFICATE-----

install:
  bind_mounts:
    - /var/lib/calico
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Deprecated" value="deprecated">

All versions below version 3.23.x are deprecated.

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Troubleshooting

The following are some tips to troubleshoot issues with the Calico CNI.

- A daemon set is installed, the calico-node pod should be deployed on all the nodes in the cluster to provide
  networking.

- For any issues with networking, check the logs of the `calico-node` and `calico-kube-controller` pods on the cluster.

## Terraform

Use the following Terraform snippet to reference the Calico CNI pack in your Terraform template.

```hcl

data "spectrocloud_registry" "public_registry" {
  name = "Public Repo"
}

data "spectrocloud_pack_simple" "calico" {
  name    = "cni-calico"
  version = "3.27.0"
  type = "helm"
  registry_uid = data.spectrocloud_registry.public_registry.id
}
```

## References

- [Calico Documentation](https://docs.tigera.io/calico/latest/reference)

Commit message:

docs: Document Calico version that fixes Edge compatibility issue (#8128)
* Document Calico version that fixes Edge compatibility issue

* ci: auto-formatting prettier issues

* Update release-notes.md

* Update release-notes.md

* Update release-notes.md

* Update release-notes.md

* Update release-notes.md

* Update docs/docs-content/integrations/cni-calico.mdx

Co-authored-by: Amanda Churi Filanowski <amanda.filanowski@spectrocloud.com>

* Update docs/docs-content/integrations/cni-calico.mdx

Co-authored-by: Amanda Churi Filanowski <amanda.filanowski@spectrocloud.com>

* Update docs/docs-content/release-notes/release-notes.md

Co-authored-by: Amanda Churi Filanowski <amanda.filanowski@spectrocloud.com>

* Fix comflict

* Empty commit to trigger Netlify

* ci: auto-formatting prettier issues

* Fix formatting

* Update release-notes.md

* Update release-notes.md

* Empty commit to trigger security-scans/gitleaks

---------

Co-authored-by: Svetlana Efimova <svetlanaefimova@Mac.lan>
Co-authored-by: svetlana-efimova <205686560+svetlana-efimova@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Amanda Churi Filanowski <amanda.filanowski@spectrocloud.com>

docs/docs-content/integrations/cni-calico.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: "Calico"
title: "Calico"
description: "Reference documentation for the Calico pack in Palette"
hide_table_of_contents: true
type: "integration"
category: ["network", "amd64", "fips"]
sidebar_class_name: "hide-from-sidebar"
logoUrl: "https://registry.spectrocloud.com/v1/cni-calico/blobs/sha256:9a08103ccd797857a81b6ce55fa4f84a48bcb2bddfc7a4ff27878819c87e1e30?type=image.webp"
tags: ["packs", "calico", "network"]
---

<RedirectPackPage packName="cni-calico" />

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
:::warning

Limitations:

- AWS and VMware support IP-in-IP encapsulation. Azure supports VXLAN encapsulation.
- Edge clusters using Calico version 3.30.2 may fail with the following error:
  `Fatal: can't open lock file /run/xtables.lock: Is a directory`. For Edge cluster deployments, use
  <VersionedLink text="Calico CNI pack version 3.30.2-rev2" url="/integrations/packs/?pack=cni-calico&version=3.30.2-rev2&tab=custom" />,
  which contains the fix for this issue.
  
:::
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

## Versions Supported

<Tabs queryString="parent">

<TabItem label="3.27.x" value="3.27.x">

### Create Bind Mounts for Edge Deployments

In Edge deployments, Calico requires a bind mount on the host machine. Without the bind mount, it's possible for the
Calico pods to be stuck in the init state. Use the following example to create a bind mount from `/var/lib/calico` on
the Edge host. When you build an installer ISO with the `bind_mounts` block, the folders specified in the block will be
mounted. For more information about building the installer ISO, refer to
[Build Installer ISO](../clusters/edge/edgeforge-workflow/palette-canvos/build-installer-iso.md).

```yaml
#cloud-config
stylus:
  site:
    debug: true
    insecureSkipVerify: false
    paletteEndpoint: api.console.spectrocloud.com
    name: edge-appliance-1
    caCerts:
      - |
        -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----

        -----END CERTIFICATE-----

install:
  bind_mounts:
    - /var/lib/calico
```

### Connectivity Issues in Virtual Machine Environments

Due to a
[known issue with VMware's VMXNET3 adapter](https://github.com/cilium/cilium/issues/13096#issuecomment-723901955), which
is widely used in different virtual machine management services, including VMware vSphere and Hyper-V, Calico Pods may
face network connectivity issues.

Before deploying clusters with Calico in VXLAN mode, disable checksum offloading on your virtual host using the
following the command. Replace `<interface-name>` with the name of the network interface on your host. Refer to
[Calico known issue #9433](https://github.com/projectcalico/calico/issues/9433) for more information.

```shell
ethtool --offload <interface-name> tx off
```

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->

Alternatively, if deploying an Edge host in a virtual machine environment using a VMXNET3 adapter and enabling an <VersionedLink text="overlay network" url="/clusters/edge/networking/vxlan-overlay" /> for your cluster, add the
following commands in the `user-data` file at the boot stage. Replace `<interface-name>` with the name of the network
interface on your Edge host.

<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

```yaml {2-6}
stages:
  initramfs:
    - name: "Disable UDP segmentation"
      commands:
        - ethtool --offload <interface-name> tx-udp_tnl-segmentation off
        - ethtool --offload <interface-name> tx-udp_tnl-csum-segmentation off
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="3.26.x" value="3.26.x">

### Create Bind Mounts for Edge Deployments

In Edge deployments, Calico requires a bind mount on the host machine. Without the bind mount, it's possible for the
Calico pods to be stuck in the init state. Use the following example to create a bind mount from `/var/lib/calico` on
the Edge host. When you build an installer ISO with the `bind_mounts` block, the folders specified in the block will be
mounted. For more information about building the installer ISO, refer to
[Build Installer ISO](../clusters/edge/edgeforge-workflow/palette-canvos/build-installer-iso.md).

```yaml
#cloud-config
stylus:
  site:
    debug: true
    insecureSkipVerify: false
    paletteEndpoint: api.console.spectrocloud.com
    name: edge-appliance-1
    caCerts:
      - |
        -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----

        -----END CERTIFICATE-----

install:
  bind_mounts:
    - /var/lib/calico
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="3.25.x" value="3.25.x">

### Create Bind Mounts for Edge Deployments

In Edge deployments, Calico requires a bind mount on the host machine. Without the bind mount, it's possible for the
Calico pods to be stuck in the init state. Use the following example to create a bind mount from `/var/lib/calico` on
the Edge host. When you build an installer ISO with the `bind_mounts` block, the folders specified in the block will be
mounted. For more information about building the installer ISO, refer to
[Build Installer ISO](../clusters/edge/edgeforge-workflow/palette-canvos/build-installer-iso.md).

```yaml
#cloud-config
stylus:
  site:
    debug: true
    insecureSkipVerify: false
    paletteEndpoint: api.console.spectrocloud.com
    name: edge-appliance-1
    caCerts:
      - |
        -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----

        -----END CERTIFICATE-----

install:
  bind_mounts:
    - /var/lib/calico
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="3.24.x" value="3.24.x">

### Create Bind Mounts for Edge Deployments

In Edge deployments, Calico requires a bind mount on the host machine. Without the bind mount, it's possible for the
Calico pods to be stuck in the init state. Use the following example to create a bind mount from `/var/lib/calico` on
the Edge host. When you build an installer ISO with the `bind_mounts` block, the folders specified in the block will be
mounted. For more information about building the installer ISO, refer to
[Build Installer ISO](../clusters/edge/edgeforge-workflow/palette-canvos/build-installer-iso.md).

```yaml
#cloud-config
stylus:
  site:
    debug: true
    insecureSkipVerify: false
    paletteEndpoint: api.console.spectrocloud.com
    name: edge-appliance-1
    caCerts:
      - |
        -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----

        -----END CERTIFICATE-----

install:
  bind_mounts:
    - /var/lib/calico
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="3.23.x" value="3.23.x">

### Create Bind Mounts for Edge Deployments

In Edge deployments, Calico requires a bind mount on the host machine. Without the bind mount, it's possible for the
Calico pods to be stuck in the init state. Use the following example to create a bind mount from `/var/lib/calico` on
the Edge host. When you build an installer ISO with the `bind_mounts` block, the folders specified in the block will be
mounted. For more information about building the installer ISO, refer to
[Build Installer ISO](../clusters/edge/edgeforge-workflow/palette-canvos/build-installer-iso.md).

```yaml {14-16}
#cloud-config
stylus:
  site:
    debug: true
    insecureSkipVerify: false
    paletteEndpoint: api.console.spectrocloud.com
    name: edge-appliance-1
    caCerts:
      - |
        -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----

        -----END CERTIFICATE-----

install:
  bind_mounts:
    - /var/lib/calico
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Deprecated" value="deprecated">

All versions below version 3.23.x are deprecated.

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Troubleshooting

The following are some tips to troubleshoot issues with the Calico CNI.

- A daemon set is installed, the calico-node pod should be deployed on all the nodes in the cluster to provide
  networking.

- For any issues with networking, check the logs of the `calico-node` and `calico-kube-controller` pods on the cluster.

## Terraform

Use the following Terraform snippet to reference the Calico CNI pack in your Terraform template.

```hcl

data "spectrocloud_registry" "public_registry" {
  name = "Public Repo"
}

data "spectrocloud_pack_simple" "calico" {
  name    = "cni-calico"
  version = "3.27.0"
  type = "helm"
  registry_uid = data.spectrocloud_registry.public_registry.id
}
```

## References

- [Calico Documentation](https://docs.tigera.io/calico/latest/reference)
