docs/docs-content/integrations/collectord.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: "Outcold Solutions"
title: "Outcold Solutions"
description: "Outcold Solutions - Monitoring pack in Spectro Cloud"
hide_table_of_contents: true
type: "integration"
category: ["monitoring", "amd64"]
sidebar_class_name: "hide-from-sidebar"
logoUrl: "https://registry.spectrocloud.com/v1/outcold-monitoring/blobs/sha256:3140960d1f39649ad821cfc59450d3c164079b03d15387b2e638eae07442af41?type=image/png"
tags: ["packs", "outcold-monitoring", "monitoring"]
---

Integration provides Kubernetes monitoring solution that includes log aggregation, performance and system metrics,
metrics from the control plane and application metrics, a dashboard for reviewing network activity, and alerts to notify
you about cluster or application performance issues.

## Versions Supported

<Tabs queryString="versions">
<TabItem label="5.0.x" value="5.0.x">

- **5.0.0**

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Prerequisites

This integration forwards logs and metrics to [Splunk](https://www.splunk.com/). Pre-requisites for Splunk are

1. [Install Kubernetes Monitoring application](https://www.outcoldsolutions.com/docs/monitoring-kubernetes/v5/installation/#install-monitoring-kubernetes-application)
2. [Enable HTTP Event Collector (HEC) in Splunk](https://www.outcoldsolutions.com/docs/monitoring-kubernetes/v5/installation/#enable-http-event-collector-in-splunk)
3. Make sure to configure the forwarder settings below while setting up the pack

```yaml
[general]
acceptEULA = false
license =
fields.kubernetes_cluster = -
# Splunk output
[output.splunk]

# Splunk HTTP Event Collector url
url =

# Splunk HTTP Event Collector Token
token =

# Allow invalid SSL server certificate
insecure = false

# Path to CA certificate
caPath =

# CA Name to verify
caName =
```

## Components

The following workloads gets deployed on collectorforkubernetes namespace, by default

- Collectorforkubernetes - Daemonset
- Collectorforkubernetes Master - Daemonset
- Collectorforkubernetes Addon - Deployment

## References

- [Official Documentation](https://www.outcoldsolutions.com/docs/monitoring-kubernetes/v5)
- [Install Guide](https://www.outcoldsolutions.com/docs/monitoring-kubernetes/v5/installation)

Commit message:

[version-4-1] docs: Backport/version 4 1/pr 2089 (#2126)
* docs: remove master/slave DOC-1033 PEM-4404

* docs: added kubebench

docs/docs-content/integrations/collectord.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: "Outcold Solutions"
title: "Outcold Solutions"
description: "Outcold Solutions - Monitoring pack in Spectro Cloud"
hide_table_of_contents: true
type: "integration"
category: ["monitoring", "amd64"]
sidebar_class_name: "hide-from-sidebar"
logoUrl: "https://registry.spectrocloud.com/v1/outcold-monitoring/blobs/sha256:3140960d1f39649ad821cfc59450d3c164079b03d15387b2e638eae07442af41?type=image/png"
tags: ["packs", "outcold-monitoring", "monitoring"]
---

Integration provides Kubernetes monitoring solution that includes log aggregation, performance and system metrics,
metrics from the control plane and application metrics, a dashboard for reviewing network activity, and alerts to notify
you about cluster or application performance issues.

## Versions Supported

<Tabs queryString="versions">
<TabItem label="5.0.x" value="5.0.x">

- **5.0.0**

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Prerequisites

This integration forwards logs and metrics to [Splunk](https://www.splunk.com/). Pre-requisites for Splunk are

1. [Install Kubernetes Monitoring application](https://www.outcoldsolutions.com/docs/monitoring-kubernetes/v5/installation/#install-monitoring-kubernetes-application)
2. [Enable HTTP Event Collector (HEC) in Splunk](https://www.outcoldsolutions.com/docs/monitoring-kubernetes/v5/installation/#enable-http-event-collector-in-splunk)
3. Make sure to configure the forwarder settings below while setting up the pack

```yaml
[general]
acceptEULA = false
license =
fields.kubernetes_cluster = -
# Splunk output
[output.splunk]

# Splunk HTTP Event Collector url
url =

# Splunk HTTP Event Collector Token
token =

# Allow invalid SSL server certificate
insecure = false

# Path to CA certificate
caPath =

# CA Name to verify
caName =
```

:::tip

You can find a list of all deployed components in the
[configuration reference](https://www.outcoldsolutions.com/docs/monitoring-kubernetes/v5/configuration/) page.

:::

## References

- [Official Documentation](https://www.outcoldsolutions.com/docs/monitoring-kubernetes/v5)
- [Install Guide](https://www.outcoldsolutions.com/docs/monitoring-kubernetes/v5/installation)
