docs/docs-content/integrations/harbor-edge.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: "harbor-edge"
title: "Harbor Edge Native Config"
description: "Harbor Edge Native Config pack in Spectro Cloud"
hide_table_of_contents: true
type: "integration"
category: ["system-app", "registry"]
sidebar_class_name: "hide-from-sidebar"
logoUrl: "https://registry.spectrocloud.com/v1/harbor/blobs/sha256:5cf19a83449d41a6eb2398194dd4563d31d371074375255ba8a2fc4feff4ef33?type=image/png"
tags: ["packs", "harbor-edge-native-config", "system-app"]
---

Harbor is an open-source registry that secures artifacts with policies and role-based access control. You can install
Harbor on your Edge clusters and use it to store all the images used by the cluster, including your provider images and
all packs used by your cluster. After the initial download, the cluster can pull images from Harbor instead of an
external registry, allowing your cluster to reboot containers or add new nodes without a connection to the external
network.

:::preview

:::

## Versions Supported

:::info

The Harbor Edge-Native Config pack is a system application pack. When you provision a cluster with a profile that
includes this pack, Palette automatically chooses the latest version of Harbor supported by Palette to install on the
cluster. You cannot manually choose a version of this pack.

:::

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="1.0.0" label="1.0.0">

### Prerequisites

- All Edge devices in your cluster must have at least 4 CPUs and 8 GB of RAM.

- At least 160 GB of persistent storage volume for the cluster. The actual volume required depends on the size of the
  images used by your cluster.

- A Container Storage Interface (CSI) pack is required in your cluster profile.

### Parameters

:::tip

You can use a macro to avoid providing credentials in plain text. For more information about macros, refer to
[Macros guide](../clusters/cluster-management/macros.md).

:::

| **Parameter**                           | **Description**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| --------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `harbor-config.auth.password`           | Specifies the password used with the default user name `admin` to authenticate with the Harbor image registry. You cannot change the username. If you don't provide password, a random password is generated and saved to a secret in the cluster named `registry-info` in the `cluster_CLUSTER_UID` namespace, where `CLUSTER_UID` is the unique ID for your cluster. You find this namespace by listing all namespaces in your cluster. This password is automatically configured to be used internally inside the cluster for image pulls, and you would only need it for accessing the Harbor registry from outside the cluster. |
| `harbor-config.auth.certs`              | Specifies the certificate and private key used for authentication with Harbor. The common name or subject alternative name must include the host name `spectro.registry.local` and the Edge cluster's virtual IP address. If you don't provide a certificate or private key, Palette generates a certificate and a private key to use internally within the cluster. You can find the certificate in a secret named `harbor-tls` in the `harbor` namespace.                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `harbor-config.service.serviceType`     | Specifies the service type for the Harbor service. The default service type is NodePort.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `harbor-config.service.harbor`          | Specifies the ports that harbor is exposed on.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| `harbor-config.storage`                 | Specifies the size of the Harbor's persistent volume claim in GB. You can configure persistent volume claims for `registry`, `jobService`, `database`, `redis`, and `trivy`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| `harbor-config.service.metrics.enabled` | Specify whether to enable metrics on Harbor. For more information about the kinds of metrics that are exposed, refer to [Harbor metrics documentation](https://goharbor.io/docs/main/administration/metrics/).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |

### Usage

#### Enable Harbor to Protect Against Outage

You can use Harbor in an Edge cluster that is connected to external networks. Harbor stores all container images
downloaded from the internet and future image pulls from the cluster will be from the local harbor registry. If your
cluster experiences an internet outage, it can still reboot containers or add new nodes using images stored locally in
Harbor. For more information, refer to
[Deploy a Cluster with a Local Harbor Registry](../clusters/edge/site-deployment/deploy-custom-registries/local-registry.md).

#### Log in to Harbor Web UI

With Harbor enabled on your Edge cluster, you can log in to Harbor via its web UI. By default, the Harbor service is
accessible as a NodePort-type service with HTTPS enabled on port `30003`. You can use the following steps to log in to
Harbor via the web UI.

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com).

2. From the left **Main Menu**, navigate to **Clusters**. Choose your Edge cluster.

3. Navigate to the **Nodes** tab, in the **Private Ips** column, you can find the IP addresses of your Edge hosts.

4. Ensure you have network access to your Edge hosts. Open a new tab in your browser and navigate to
   `https://NODE_IP:30003` and replace `NODE_IP` with any IP address in your cluster. NodePort-type services are exposed
   on the same port on all nodes in your cluster. If you changed the HTTPS port in the configurations, replace the port
   with the HTTPS port you used.

5. If you didn't provide a certificate or used a self-signed certificate, your browser might warn you about an unsafe
   connection. Dismiss the warning, and you will be directed to Harbor's web UI. If you use Google Chrome, you can click
   anywhere in your browser tab and type `this is unsafe` using your keyboard to dismiss the warning.

6. Type in `admin` as the username and your password to log in to Harbor. If you don't know your password, refer to
   [Retrieve Harbor Credentials](#retrieve-harbor-credentials) to retrieve your password.

#### Retrieve Harbor Credentials

During cluster creation, Palette creates two secrets that store the password used to authenticate the `admin` user in
Harbor and the X509 certificate used for TLS. You can access both of these credentials using the following steps:

1. Configure kubectl to access your Kubernetes cluster. For more information, refer to
   [Access a Cluster with CLI](../clusters/cluster-management/palette-webctl.md).

2. Depending on the credential you want to retrieve, use the commands described below.

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="password" label="Password">

1. Issue the command `kubectl get namespaces` to get all namespaces. Look for a namespace called `cluster-CLUSTER-ID`,
   where `CLUSTER-ID` is a string of alphanumeric characters. This is the namespace where the secret for your Harbor
   password is stored.

2. Issue the following command to get the password of your Harbor user. Replace `CLUSTER-ID-NAMESPACE` with the
   namespace you identified in the previous step. This command outputs your password.

```shell
kubectl get secret registry-info --namespace CLUSTER-ID-NAMESPACE --output jsonpath="{.data.SPECTRO_USER_PASSWORD}" | base64 --decode
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="certificate" label="X509 certificate">
Issue the following command to retrieve the certificate.

```shell
kubectl get secret harbor-tls --namespace harbor --output jsonpath="{.data.tls\.crt}" | base64 --decode
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="private-key" label="Private key">
Issue the following command to retrieve the private key.

```shell
kubectl get secret harbor-tls --namespace harbor --output jsonpath="{.data.tls\.key}" | base64 --decode
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

#### Push and Pull Images to Harbor

You can use the following steps to push images to and pull images from the Harbor registry.

:::info

If you didn't provide a certificate or are using a self-signed certificate, Docker will refuse to connect to the
registry unless you configure Docker to trust the certificate authority or use a insecure connection for your Harbor
registry. You can configure Docker to use a insecure connection by adding a line
`"insecure-registries": ["REGISTRY_URL"]` in your Docker `daemon.json` file. For more information about `daemon.json`,
refer to [Docker documentation](https://docs.docker.com/config/daemon/).

:::

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com).

2. From the left **Main Menu**, navigate to **Clusters**. Choose your Edge cluster.

3. Navigate to the **Nodes** tab, in the **Private Ips** column, you can find the IP addresses of your Edge hosts.

4. Ensure you have network access to your Edge hosts. Log in to Harbor from your command-line interface. The following
   example uses Docker, but you can use any other image management tool. Replace `NODE_IP` with the IP address of any of
   the nodes and replace `HARBOR_PASSWORD` with the password of your Harbor user. If you don't know your password, refer
   to [Retrieve Harbor Credentials](#retrieve-harbor-credentials).

   ```shell
   docker login NODE_IP:30003 --user admin --password HARBOR_PASSWORD
   ```

5. After a successful login, you can start to pull and push images.

  <Tabs>
  <TabItem value="pull-image" label="Pull images">
   To pull an image from the Harbor registry, issue the following command.

```shell
docker pull REGISTRY_URL/PROJECT_NAME/IMAGE_NAME:TAG
```

For example, the following command pulls the image for `kube-vip` from the Harbor registry.

```shell
docker pull 10.10.137.220:30003/spectro-images/gcr.io/spectro-images-public/kube-vip/kube-vip:v0.6.3
```

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="push-image" label="Push images">
  To push an image to the Harbor registry, first tag the image with your registry URL.

```shell
docker tag LOCAL_IMAGE:LOCAL_IMAGE_TAG REGISTRY_URL/PROJECT_NAME/IMAGE_NAME:TAG
```

After tagging the image, you can push it to the Harbor registry.

```shell
docker push REGISTRY_URL/PROJECT_NAME/IMAGE_NAME:TAG
```

For example, the following commands tag the local image `alpine:latest` and push it to the Harbor registry.

```
docker tag alpine:latest 10.10.137.220:30003/spectro-images/alpine:latest
docker push 10.10.137.220:30003/spectro-images/alpine:latest
```

  </TabItem>
  </Tabs>

#### Enable Image Download from Outside of Harbor

If a cluster is configured with the Harbor Edge-Native Config pack, it will assume that all images will be stored in
Harbor once they are initially downloaded. However, it is important to note that only the images that are part of the
cluster profile and managed by Palette will be stored in the Harbor registry. Any images not managed by Palette will not
be available in the Harbor registry.

This can cause issues if you want to use images that are not managed by Palette in your cluster. Harbor will not store
those images because they are not part of your cluster profile and were not requested by Palette. However, the Palette
agent in your Edge host will still try to pull those images from Harbor, resulting in ImagePullBackOff errors.

You can apply the label `stylus.io/imageswap=disable` to a namespace, which instructs the Palette agent to not pull
images from the Harbor registry. You can do this when you create the namespace, or apply the label to existing
namespaces. As long as a namespace has the label, the Palette agent will not attempt to pull images in the namespace
from the Harbor registry.

You can apply a label to a namespace by editing the pack YAML in the cluster's profile or use `kubectl` to add the label
through the command-line.

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="kubectl" label="Add Label through kubectl">

1. Connect to the cluster via `kubectl`. For more information, refer to
   [Access Cluster with kubectl](../clusters/cluster-management/palette-webctl.md).

2. Apply the `stylus.io/imageswap=disable` label to the namespace you plan to deploy resources in. Replace
   `namespace-name` with the name of your namespace.

   ```shell
   kubectl label namespace namespace-name stylus.io/imageswap=disable
   ```

3. Deploy the resources into the namespace. Since the namespace has the label `stylus.io/imageswap=disable`, the Palette
   agent will pull the image from registiries you specify instead of from the Harbor registry.

   If you already deployed the resources before applying the label, you will need to trigger another image pull action
   as the label will only apply to subsequent image pulls after it has been applied. You can do this by issuing the
   `kubectl apply` command again to reapply the manifest. Or use the `kubectl delete` command to delete the resource and
   wait for it to be re-created.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="profile" label="Add Label through Pack YAML">

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com).

2. From the left **Main Menu**, click on **Profiles**.

3. Select the profile you are using to deploy your cluster.

4. Click on **Add Manifest** to add a new manifest to your cluster profile containing the namespaces you plan to deploy
   resources to. Create a namespace if needed, and apply the label `stylus.io/imageswap=disable` to the namespace. Refer
   to [Profile Customizations](../profiles/profile-customization.md) for more information on how to apply labels to
   namespaces. For example, the following pack YAML creates a namespaced called `"wordpress"` and applies the label
   `stylus.io/imageswap=disable` to the namespace.

   ```yaml
   pack:
     namespace: "wordpress"

     namespaceLabels:
       "wordpress": "stylus.io/imageswap=disable"
   ```

5. Deploy the resources into the namespace. Since the namespace has the label `stylus.io/imageswap=disable`, the Palette
   agent will pull the image from registiries you specify instead of from the Harbor registry.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Known Issues

The following known issues exist in the Harbor 1.0.0 release.

- The Harbor database pod might fail to start due to file permission issues. This is a
  [known issue](https://github.com/goharbor/harbor-helm/issues/1676) in the Harbor GitHub repository. Refer to the
  [Troubleshooting section](#scenario---harbor-db-pod-fails-to-start) for a workaround.

- A cluster may get stuck in the provisioning state if it uses Longhorn as its storage layer. If this happens, remove
  the cluster and try again.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Troubleshooting

### Scenario - Harbor DB Pod Fails to Start

When you start a cluster with the Harbor pack, the **harbor-database** pod might fail to start and get stuck on the
**CrashLoopBackoff** state. It's possible that this is due to known issue with the Harbor pack related to file
permissions. The workaround is to delete the pod and a new pod will be automatically created.

#### Debug Steps

1. Issue the following command to identify the pods with names that start with `harbor-database`.

```shell
kubectl get pods --namespace harbor --output wide
```

2. Delete the pod you identified in the previous step. Replace `POD_NAME` with the name of the pods. If there are
   multiple pods, use the command for each pod.

```shell
kubectl delete pod POD_NAME --namespace harbor
```

## Terraform

You can reference the Harbor Edge-Native Config pack in Terraform with a data resource.

```hcl
data "spectrocloud_registry" "public_registry" {
  name = "Public Repo"
}

data "spectrocloud_pack_simple" "harbor-edge-native-config" {
  name    = "harbor-edge-native-config"
  version = "1.0.0"
  type = "helm"
  registry_uid = data.spectrocloud_registry.public_registry.id
}
```

## Resources

- [Deploy a Cluster with a Local Harbor Registry](../clusters/edge/site-deployment/deploy-custom-registries/local-registry.md)

- [Harbor documentation](https://goharbor.io/docs/2.4.0/install-config/)

Commit message:

docs: change edge harbor hardware requirements (#2413)
* docs: change edge harbor hardware requirements

* fix unfinished sentence

* clarify single node

* add fixes

---------

Co-authored-by: Lenny Chen <lenny.chen@spectrocloud.com>

docs/docs-content/integrations/harbor-edge.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: "harbor-edge"
title: "Harbor Edge Native Config"
description: "Harbor Edge Native Config pack in Spectro Cloud"
hide_table_of_contents: true
type: "integration"
category: ["system-app", "registry"]
sidebar_class_name: "hide-from-sidebar"
logoUrl: "https://registry.spectrocloud.com/v1/harbor/blobs/sha256:5cf19a83449d41a6eb2398194dd4563d31d371074375255ba8a2fc4feff4ef33?type=image/png"
tags: ["packs", "harbor-edge-native-config", "system-app"]
---

Harbor is an open-source registry that secures artifacts with policies and role-based access control. You can install
Harbor on your Edge clusters and use it to store all the images used by the cluster, including your provider images and
all packs used by your cluster. After the initial download, the cluster can pull images from Harbor instead of an
external registry, allowing your cluster to reboot containers or add new nodes without a connection to the external
network.

:::preview

:::

## Versions Supported

:::info

The Harbor Edge-Native Config pack is a system application pack. When you provision a cluster with a profile that
includes this pack, Palette automatically chooses the latest version of Harbor supported by Palette to install on the
cluster. You cannot manually choose a version of this pack.

:::

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="1.0.0" label="1.0.0">

### Prerequisites

- All Edge devices in your cluster must have at least 4 CPUs and 8 GB of RAM.

  - For single-node clusters, where there is only one Edge host handling both control plane and worker capabilities,
    your Edge host must have at least 6 CPUs and 12 GB of RAM.

- At least 300 GB of persistent storage volume for the cluster. The actual volume required depends on the size of the
  images used by your cluster.

- A Container Storage Interface (CSI) pack is required in your cluster profile.

- In the YAML file for the Kubernetes layer of your cluster, ensure that `AlwaysPullImages` is not in the list
  `enable-admission-plugins`.

### Parameters

:::tip

You can use a macro to avoid providing credentials in plain text. For more information about macros, refer to
[Macros guide](../clusters/cluster-management/macros.md).

:::

| **Parameter**                           | **Description**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| --------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `harbor-config.auth.password`           | Specifies the password used with the default user name `admin` to authenticate with the Harbor image registry. You cannot change the username. If you don't provide password, a random password is generated and saved to a secret in the cluster named `registry-info` in the `cluster_CLUSTER_UID` namespace, where `CLUSTER_UID` is the unique ID for your cluster. You find this namespace by listing all namespaces in your cluster. This password is automatically configured to be used internally inside the cluster for image pulls, and you would only need it for accessing the Harbor registry from outside the cluster. |
| `harbor-config.auth.certs`              | Specifies the certificate and private key used for authentication with Harbor. The common name or subject alternative name must include the host name `spectro.registry.local` and the Edge cluster's virtual IP address. If you don't provide a certificate or private key, Palette generates a certificate and a private key to use internally within the cluster. You can find the certificate in a secret named `harbor-tls` in the `harbor` namespace.                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `harbor-config.service.serviceType`     | Specifies the service type for the Harbor service. The default service type is NodePort.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `harbor-config.service.harbor`          | Specifies the ports that harbor is exposed on.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| `harbor-config.storage`                 | Specifies the size of the Harbor's persistent volume claim in GB. You can configure persistent volume claims for `registry`, `jobService`, `database`, `redis`, and `trivy`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| `harbor-config.service.metrics.enabled` | Specify whether to enable metrics on Harbor. For more information about the kinds of metrics that are exposed, refer to [Harbor metrics documentation](https://goharbor.io/docs/main/administration/metrics/).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |

### Usage

#### Enable Harbor to Protect Against Outage

You can use Harbor in an Edge cluster that is connected to external networks. Harbor stores all container images
downloaded from the internet and future image pulls from the cluster will be from the local harbor registry. If your
cluster experiences an internet outage, it can still reboot containers or add new nodes using images stored locally in
Harbor. For more information, refer to
[Deploy a Cluster with a Local Harbor Registry](../clusters/edge/site-deployment/deploy-custom-registries/local-registry.md).

#### Log in to Harbor Web UI

With Harbor enabled on your Edge cluster, you can log in to Harbor via its web UI. By default, the Harbor service is
accessible as a NodePort-type service with HTTPS enabled on port `30003`. You can use the following steps to log in to
Harbor via the web UI.

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com).

2. From the left **Main Menu**, navigate to **Clusters**. Choose your Edge cluster.

3. Navigate to the **Nodes** tab, in the **Private Ips** column, you can find the IP addresses of your Edge hosts.

4. Ensure you have network access to your Edge hosts. Open a new tab in your browser and navigate to
   `https://NODE_IP:30003` and replace `NODE_IP` with any IP address in your cluster. NodePort-type services are exposed
   on the same port on all nodes in your cluster. If you changed the HTTPS port in the configurations, replace the port
   with the HTTPS port you used.

5. If you didn't provide a certificate or used a self-signed certificate, your browser might warn you about an unsafe
   connection. Dismiss the warning, and you will be directed to Harbor's web UI. If you use Google Chrome, you can click
   anywhere in your browser tab and type `this is unsafe` using your keyboard to dismiss the warning.

6. Type in `admin` as the username and your password to log in to Harbor. If you don't know your password, refer to
   [Retrieve Harbor Credentials](#retrieve-harbor-credentials) to retrieve your password.

#### Retrieve Harbor Credentials

During cluster creation, Palette creates two secrets that store the password used to authenticate the `admin` user in
Harbor and the X509 certificate used for TLS. You can access both of these credentials using the following steps:

1. Configure kubectl to access your Kubernetes cluster. For more information, refer to
   [Access a Cluster with CLI](../clusters/cluster-management/palette-webctl.md).

2. Depending on the credential you want to retrieve, use the commands described below.

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="password" label="Password">

1. Issue the command `kubectl get namespaces` to get all namespaces. Look for a namespace called `cluster-CLUSTER-ID`,
   where `CLUSTER-ID` is a string of alphanumeric characters. This is the namespace where the secret for your Harbor
   password is stored.

2. Issue the following command to get the password of your Harbor user. Replace `CLUSTER-ID-NAMESPACE` with the
   namespace you identified in the previous step. This command outputs your password.

```shell
kubectl get secret registry-info --namespace CLUSTER-ID-NAMESPACE --output jsonpath="{.data.SPECTRO_USER_PASSWORD}" | base64 --decode
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="certificate" label="X509 certificate">
Issue the following command to retrieve the certificate.

```shell
kubectl get secret harbor-tls --namespace harbor --output jsonpath="{.data.tls\.crt}" | base64 --decode
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="private-key" label="Private key">
Issue the following command to retrieve the private key.

```shell
kubectl get secret harbor-tls --namespace harbor --output jsonpath="{.data.tls\.key}" | base64 --decode
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

#### Push and Pull Images to Harbor

You can use the following steps to push images to and pull images from the Harbor registry.

:::info

If you didn't provide a certificate or are using a self-signed certificate, Docker will refuse to connect to the
registry unless you configure Docker to trust the certificate authority or use a insecure connection for your Harbor
registry. You can configure Docker to use a insecure connection by adding a line
`"insecure-registries": ["REGISTRY_URL"]` in your Docker `daemon.json` file. For more information about `daemon.json`,
refer to [Docker documentation](https://docs.docker.com/config/daemon/).

:::

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com).

2. From the left **Main Menu**, navigate to **Clusters**. Choose your Edge cluster.

3. Navigate to the **Nodes** tab, in the **Private Ips** column, you can find the IP addresses of your Edge hosts.

4. Ensure you have network access to your Edge hosts. Log in to Harbor from your command-line interface. The following
   example uses Docker, but you can use any other image management tool. Replace `NODE_IP` with the IP address of any of
   the nodes and replace `HARBOR_PASSWORD` with the password of your Harbor user. If you don't know your password, refer
   to [Retrieve Harbor Credentials](#retrieve-harbor-credentials).

   ```shell
   docker login NODE_IP:30003 --user admin --password HARBOR_PASSWORD
   ```

5. After a successful login, you can start to pull and push images.

  <Tabs>
  <TabItem value="pull-image" label="Pull images">
   To pull an image from the Harbor registry, issue the following command.

```shell
docker pull REGISTRY_URL/PROJECT_NAME/IMAGE_NAME:TAG
```

For example, the following command pulls the image for `kube-vip` from the Harbor registry.

```shell
docker pull 10.10.137.220:30003/spectro-images/gcr.io/spectro-images-public/kube-vip/kube-vip:v0.6.3
```

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="push-image" label="Push images">
  To push an image to the Harbor registry, first tag the image with your registry URL.

```shell
docker tag LOCAL_IMAGE:LOCAL_IMAGE_TAG REGISTRY_URL/PROJECT_NAME/IMAGE_NAME:TAG
```

After tagging the image, you can push it to the Harbor registry.

```shell
docker push REGISTRY_URL/PROJECT_NAME/IMAGE_NAME:TAG
```

For example, the following commands tag the local image `alpine:latest` and push it to the Harbor registry.

```
docker tag alpine:latest 10.10.137.220:30003/spectro-images/alpine:latest
docker push 10.10.137.220:30003/spectro-images/alpine:latest
```

  </TabItem>
  </Tabs>

#### Enable Image Download from Outside of Harbor

If a cluster is configured with the Harbor Edge-Native Config pack, it will assume that all images will be stored in
Harbor once they are initially downloaded. However, it is important to note that only the images that are part of the
cluster profile and managed by Palette will be stored in the Harbor registry. Any images not managed by Palette will not
be available in the Harbor registry.

This can cause issues if you want to use images that are not managed by Palette in your cluster. Harbor will not store
those images because they are not part of your cluster profile and were not requested by Palette. However, the Palette
agent in your Edge host will still try to pull those images from Harbor, resulting in ImagePullBackOff errors.

You can apply the label `stylus.io/imageswap=disable` to a namespace, which instructs the Palette agent to not pull
images from the Harbor registry. You can do this when you create the namespace, or apply the label to existing
namespaces. As long as a namespace has the label, the Palette agent will not attempt to pull images in the namespace
from the Harbor registry.

You can apply a label to a namespace by editing the pack YAML in the cluster's profile or use `kubectl` to add the label
through the command-line.

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="kubectl" label="Add Label through kubectl">

1. Connect to the cluster via `kubectl`. For more information, refer to
   [Access Cluster with kubectl](../clusters/cluster-management/palette-webctl.md).

2. Apply the `stylus.io/imageswap=disable` label to the namespace you plan to deploy resources in. Replace
   `namespace-name` with the name of your namespace.

   ```shell
   kubectl label namespace namespace-name stylus.io/imageswap=disable
   ```

3. Deploy the resources into the namespace. Since the namespace has the label `stylus.io/imageswap=disable`, the Palette
   agent will pull the image from registiries you specify instead of from the Harbor registry.

   If you already deployed the resources before applying the label, you will need to trigger another image pull action
   as the label will only apply to subsequent image pulls after it has been applied. You can do this by issuing the
   `kubectl apply` command again to reapply the manifest. Or use the `kubectl delete` command to delete the resource and
   wait for it to be re-created.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="profile" label="Add Label through Pack YAML">

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com).

2. From the left **Main Menu**, click on **Profiles**.

3. Select the profile you are using to deploy your cluster.

4. Click on **Add Manifest** to add a new manifest to your cluster profile containing the namespaces you plan to deploy
   resources to. Create a namespace if needed, and apply the label `stylus.io/imageswap=disable` to the namespace. Refer
   to [Profile Customizations](../profiles/profile-customization.md) for more information on how to apply labels to
   namespaces. For example, the following pack YAML creates a namespaced called `"wordpress"` and applies the label
   `stylus.io/imageswap=disable` to the namespace.

   ```yaml
   pack:
     namespace: "wordpress"

     namespaceLabels:
       "wordpress": "stylus.io/imageswap=disable"
   ```

5. Deploy the resources into the namespace. Since the namespace has the label `stylus.io/imageswap=disable`, the Palette
   agent will pull the image from registiries you specify instead of from the Harbor registry.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Known Issues

The following known issues exist in the Harbor 1.0.0 release.

- The Harbor database pod might fail to start due to file permission issues. This is a
  [known issue](https://github.com/goharbor/harbor-helm/issues/1676) in the Harbor GitHub repository. Refer to the
  [Troubleshooting section](#scenario---harbor-db-pod-fails-to-start) for a workaround.

- A cluster may get stuck in the provisioning state if it uses Longhorn as its storage layer. If this happens, remove
  the cluster and try again.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Troubleshooting

### Scenario - Harbor DB Pod Fails to Start

When you start a cluster with the Harbor pack, the **harbor-database** pod might fail to start and get stuck on the
**CrashLoopBackoff** state. It's possible that this is due to known issue with the Harbor pack related to file
permissions. The workaround is to delete the pod and a new pod will be automatically created.

#### Debug Steps

1. Issue the following command to identify the pods with names that start with `harbor-database`.

```shell
kubectl get pods --namespace harbor --output wide
```

2. Delete the pod you identified in the previous step. Replace `POD_NAME` with the name of the pods. If there are
   multiple pods, use the command for each pod.

```shell
kubectl delete pod POD_NAME --namespace harbor
```

## Terraform

You can reference the Harbor Edge-Native Config pack in Terraform with a data resource.

```hcl
data "spectrocloud_registry" "public_registry" {
  name = "Public Repo"
}

data "spectrocloud_pack_simple" "harbor-edge-native-config" {
  name    = "harbor-edge-native-config"
  version = "1.0.0"
  type = "helm"
  registry_uid = data.spectrocloud_registry.public_registry.id
}
```

## Resources

- [Deploy a Cluster with a Local Harbor Registry](../clusters/edge/site-deployment/deploy-custom-registries/local-registry.md)

- [Harbor documentation](https://goharbor.io/docs/2.4.0/install-config/)
