docs/docs-content/integrations/vault.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: 'Vault'
title: 'Vault'
description: 'Integration of the Vault add on into Spectro Cloud'
hide_table_of_contents: true
type: "integration"
category: ['security', 'amd64', 'arm64']
sidebar_class_name: "hide-from-sidebar"
logoUrl: 'https://registry.spectrocloud.com/v1/vault/blobs/sha256:1abda0173be1fd4ddfeccd2ff15089edd38a25e433ad7bb562a770d92992c7af?type=image/png'
tags: ['packs', 'vault', 'security']
---

[Vault](https://www.vaultproject.io/) helps secure, store, and tightly control access to tokens, passwords, certificates, encryption keys for protecting secrets, and other sensitive data using a UI, CLI, or HTTP API.

## Versions Supported

<Tabs queryString="versions">

<TabItem label="0.22.x" value="0.22.x">

* **0.22.0**

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="0.20.x" value="0.20.x">

* **0.20.1**

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="0.11.x" value="0.11.x">

* **0.11.0**

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="0.9.x" value="0.9.x">

  * **0.9.0**

</TabItem>


<TabItem label="0.6.x" value="0.6.x">

* **0.6.0**

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="0.3.x" value="0.3.x">

* **0.3.1**

</TabItem>
</Tabs>


## Components

Vault integration has the following components:

* Vault server.
* UI (Optional).
* [Agent injector](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/platform/k8s/injector/) (Optional).

:::caution

When using Vault with the RKE2 distribution of Kubernetes in Palette Edge, you must explicitly specify a storage class for the Vault server. To specify a storage class, insert the following fields under the `server` field in `values.yaml` for the Vault layer in your cluster profile. 

```yaml
server:
    dataStorage:
        storageClass: <storage class name>
```

:::

## Supported Use cases

1. Running a Vault Service:
    * Vault is set up to run in **Dev mode** by default and so, Vault will be unsealed and initialized.
    * For production use cases, we recommend disabling Dev mode and enable HA.
    * Also, see [Production Checklist](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/platform/k8s/helm/run#architecture) recommendations.
1. Injecting application secrets from an external Vault into pods (**Agent Injector**).
    * For running agent injector alone in the cluster, use v0.6.0 of Vault pack.
    * Make sure to set `injector.externalVaultAddr` to point to the external Vault server.

## How secrets are injected in deployments?

In Kubernetes clusters with Vault integrated, secrets can be injected into the application pods by adding the following annotations:

```yaml
vault.hashicorp.com/agent-inject: "true"
vault.hashicorp.com/agent-inject-secret-<unique_name>: /path/to/secret
vault.hashicorp.com/role: "<role using which the secret can be fetced>"
```

More information on consuming Vault secrets can be found in [Vault docs](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/platform/k8s/injector)

## Ingress

Follow below steps to configure Ingress on Vault Server

1. Make sure serviceType is not set for Vault Server. That way, serviceType will default to ClusterIP
   * Version 0.6.0 - line #289
   * Version 0.3.1 - line #96
2. Ingress
   * Enable Ingress ; Change enabled from false to "true"
   * Set Ingress rules like annotations, path, hosts etc.
   * Version 0.6.0 - line #146
   * Version 0.3.1 - line #96

With these config changes, you can access Vault service on the Ingress Controller LoadBalancer hostname / IP

## References

- [Vault Agent injector](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/platform/k8s/injector/)


- [Injecting Vault Secrets Into Kubernetes Pods via a Sidecar - Blog](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/injecting-vault-secrets-into-kubernetes-pods-via-a-sidecar/)


- [Vault Agent Injector Examples](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/platform/k8s/injector/examples/)


- [Vault on Kubernetes Guide](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/platform/k8s/helm/run)

Commit message:

docs: specify location of change

docs/docs-content/integrations/vault.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: 'Vault'
title: 'Vault'
description: 'Integration of the Vault add on into Spectro Cloud'
hide_table_of_contents: true
type: "integration"
category: ['security', 'amd64', 'arm64']
sidebar_class_name: "hide-from-sidebar"
logoUrl: 'https://registry.spectrocloud.com/v1/vault/blobs/sha256:1abda0173be1fd4ddfeccd2ff15089edd38a25e433ad7bb562a770d92992c7af?type=image/png'
tags: ['packs', 'vault', 'security']
---

[Vault](https://www.vaultproject.io/) helps secure, store, and tightly control access to tokens, passwords, certificates, encryption keys for protecting secrets, and other sensitive data using a UI, CLI, or HTTP API.

## Versions Supported

<Tabs queryString="versions">

<TabItem label="0.22.x" value="0.22.x">

* **0.22.0**

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="0.20.x" value="0.20.x">

* **0.20.1**

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="0.11.x" value="0.11.x">

* **0.11.0**

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="0.9.x" value="0.9.x">

  * **0.9.0**

</TabItem>


<TabItem label="0.6.x" value="0.6.x">

* **0.6.0**

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="0.3.x" value="0.3.x">

* **0.3.1**

</TabItem>
</Tabs>


## Components

Vault integration has the following components:

* Vault server.
* UI (Optional).
* [Agent injector](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/platform/k8s/injector/) (Optional).

:::caution

When using Vault with the RKE2 distribution of Kubernetes in Palette Edge, you must explicitly specify a storage class for the Vault server. To specify a storage class, change the value of the field  `charts.vault.server.dataStorage.storageClass` in `values.yaml` for the Vault pack in your cluster profile from `null` to a storage class that meets your needs. Refer to [Kubernetes documentation on storage classes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/storage-classes/) for more details. 

:::

## Supported Use cases

1. Running a Vault Service:
    * Vault is set up to run in **Dev mode** by default and so, Vault will be unsealed and initialized.
    * For production use cases, we recommend disabling Dev mode and enable HA.
    * Also, see [Production Checklist](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/platform/k8s/helm/run#architecture) recommendations.
1. Injecting application secrets from an external Vault into pods (**Agent Injector**).
    * For running agent injector alone in the cluster, use v0.6.0 of Vault pack.
    * Make sure to set `injector.externalVaultAddr` to point to the external Vault server.

## How secrets are injected in deployments?

In Kubernetes clusters with Vault integrated, secrets can be injected into the application pods by adding the following annotations:

```yaml
vault.hashicorp.com/agent-inject: "true"
vault.hashicorp.com/agent-inject-secret-<unique_name>: /path/to/secret
vault.hashicorp.com/role: "<role using which the secret can be fetced>"
```

More information on consuming Vault secrets can be found in [Vault docs](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/platform/k8s/injector)

## Ingress

Follow below steps to configure Ingress on Vault Server

1. Make sure serviceType is not set for Vault Server. That way, serviceType will default to ClusterIP
   * Version 0.6.0 - line #289
   * Version 0.3.1 - line #96
2. Ingress
   * Enable Ingress ; Change enabled from false to "true"
   * Set Ingress rules like annotations, path, hosts etc.
   * Version 0.6.0 - line #146
   * Version 0.3.1 - line #96

With these config changes, you can access Vault service on the Ingress Controller LoadBalancer hostname / IP

## References

- [Vault Agent injector](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/platform/k8s/injector/)


- [Injecting Vault Secrets Into Kubernetes Pods via a Sidecar - Blog](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/injecting-vault-secrets-into-kubernetes-pods-via-a-sidecar/)


- [Vault Agent Injector Examples](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/platform/k8s/injector/examples/)


- [Vault on Kubernetes Guide](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/platform/k8s/helm/run)
