docs/docs-content/integrations/verified_packs.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: "Palette Verified Packs"
title: "Palette Verified Packs"
description: "Identify Palette Verified Packs and ... ."
icon: ""
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 10
tags: ["packs", "verified"]
---


Palette Verified Packs are packs that we build and actively maintain. We configure verified packs according to best practices, continuously update them, and monitor them for security vulnerabilities. Verified packs are easily recognized by the green shield icon that distinguishes them from other packs.

<!-- Verified Packs display in Palette with a green shield icon to distinguish them from other packs. -->

![A screenshot of several Verified Packs with a green shield icon.](/integrations_verified-packs-green-check.png)

We offer verified packs for all layers in the cluster profile stack - from infrastructure layers to application layers. Our OS and Kubernetes packs are hardened using Center for Internet Security (CIS) standards. 

## Verified Pack Updates

Verified packs are updated every six to eight weeks with any needed configuration adjustments. To learn about our general pack maintenance policy, review the [Maintenancy Policy](maintenance-policy.md) reference.
 
### Hotfix Release Schedule

We have a weekly hotfix release schedule in place to roll out urgent fixes. If any pack is found to have a security issue, we quickly address the issue and release it as a hotfix.  

### Minor Releases

Any critical, high, or medium concerns are addressed in an upcoming minor release and occur independent of Palette release timelines.  

:::info

Your Spectro Cloud Palette subscription covers access to our Support team and product updates.

:::

Commit message:

Ensure required language is used

docs/docs-content/integrations/verified_packs.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: "Palette Verified Packs"
title: "Palette Verified Packs"
description: "Identify Palette Verified Packs and ... ."
icon: ""
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 10
tags: ["packs", "verified"]
---


Palette Verified Packs are packs that we at Spectro Cloud build and actively maintain with continuous updates and monitoring for security vulnerabilities. We use our extensive knowledge to ensure verified packs are configured according to best practices. We offer verified packs across the spectrum of a typical cluster profile stack - from the Operating System (OS) layer up to application layers. Verified packs are easily recognized in Palette by the green shield icon that distinguishes them from other packs. 

![A screenshot of several Verified Packs with a green shield icon.](/integrations_verified-packs-green-check.png)


### Verified Pack Updates

Verified packs are updated every six to eight weeks to ensure they are always current. These updates include any necessary configuration adjustments. Additionally, our OS and Kubernetes packs are hardened using Center for Internet Security (CIS) standards, and we update them periodically to align with best practices. If any pack is found to have a security issue, we quickly address it and, depending on the severity of the issue, we may release a patch fix. To address patch fixes, we have established a weekly hotfix release schedule to flexibly roll out urgent fixes as needed.

Where relevant, any recently identified critical, high, or medium concerns will be addressed in an upcoming minor release, which occurs independent of Palette release timelines.

To learn about our general pack maintenance policy, review the [Maintenancy Policy](maintenance-policy.md) reference.

:::info

Your Spectro Cloud Palette subscription covers access to our Support team and product updates.

:::
