docs/docs-content/vertex/system-management/ssl-certificate-management.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: "SSL Certificate Management"
title: "SSL Certificate"
description: "Upload and manage SSL certificates in Palette VerteX."
icon: ""
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 70
tags: ["vertex", "management"]
keywords: ["self-hosted", "vertex"]
---

Palette VerteX uses Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) certificates to secure internal and external communication with Hypertext
Transfer Protocol Secure (HTTPS). External VerteX endpoints, such as the
[system console](../system-management/system-management.md#system-console),
[VerteX dashboard](../../introduction/dashboard.md), the VerteX API, and the gRPC endpoint, are enabled by default with
HTTPS using an auto-generated self-signed certificate. You can replace the self-signed certificate with your SSL
certificate to secure these endpoints.

Palette VerteX validates the combination of system address, certificate, key, and Certificate Authority (CA). Ensure
that the certificate is not expired, as well as that it is valid for the CA and the system address. Additionally, the
system address must be accessible from the system console.

:::warning

You can swap out the external endpoint certificate at any time without affecting the system functionality. However,
updating the system address may require manual reconciliation on deployed clusters. Review the
[prerequisites](#prerequisites) before you proceed to ensure you have all met all requirements.

:::

### Prerequisites

- Access to the Palette VerteX system console.

- You need to have an x509 certificate and a key file in PEM format. The certificate file must contain the full
  certificate chain. Reach out to your network administrator or security team if you do not have these files.

- Ensure the certificate is created for the custom domain name you specified for your Palette VerteX installation. If
  you did not specify a custom domain name, the certificate must be created for the Palette VerteX system console's IP
  address. You can also specify a load balancer IP address if you are using a load balancer to access Palette VerteX.

- The new SSL certificate must also include the previous DNS name or IP address in the Subject Alternative Name (SAN)
  field. This ensures that existing connections are not interrupted.

- If you are changing the DNS endpoint, ensure both the new and old DNS endpoints are accessible for some time, ideally
  sufficient time to ensure all existing Palette clusters have been updated to use the new endpoint and that no existing
  connections are interrupted. Refer to the
  [Reconcile System Address on Deployed Clusters](#reconcile-system-address-on-deployed-clusters) section for more
  information on updating deployed clusters.

### Enablement

You can upload an SSL certificate in Palette VerteX by using the following steps.

1. Log in to the Palette VerteX system console.

2. Navigate to the left **Main Menu** and select **Administration**.

3. Select the tab titled **Certificates**.

4. Copy and paste the certificate into the **Certificate** field.

5. Copy and paste the certificate key into the **Key** field.

6. Copy and paste the certificate authority into the **Certificate authority** field.

   ![A view of the certificate upload screen](/vertex_system-management_ssl-certifiacte-management_certificate-upload.webp)

7. Save your changes.

If the certificate is invalid, you will receive an error message. Once the certificate is uploaded successfully, Palette
VerteX will refresh its listening ports and start using the new certificate.

## Validate

You can validate that your certificate is uploaded correctly by using the following steps.

1. Log out of the Palette VerteX system console. If you are already logged in, log out and close your browser session.
   Browsers cache connections and may not use the newly enabled HTTPS connection. Closing your existing browser session
   avoids issues related to your browser caching an HTTP connection.

2. Log back into the Palette VerteX system console. Ensure the connection is secure by checking the URL. The URL should
   start with `https://`.

VerteX is now using your uploaded certificate to create a secure HTTPS connection with external clients. Users can now
securely access the system console, VerteX dashboard, the gRPC endpoint, and the VerteX API endpoint.

## Reconcile System Address on Deployed Clusters

Once you have updated your system address, the clusters that were deployed before the update will not be able to
automatically reconnect to Palette if the old system address is no longer available. You will need to manually update
the API endpoint on each cluster if this is the case. This enables the Palette agent to reconnect to the API at the
newly configured system address.

### Prerequisites

- Palette VerteX access with a configured cloud account.

- A cluster deployed prior to the system address update. Refer to the [Clusters](../../clusters/clusters.md) section for
  further guidance.

- `kubectl` installed. Use the Kubernetes [Install Tools](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/) page for further
  guidance.

### Enablement

1. Log into Palette VerteX using the configured system address.

2. Navigate to the left **Main Menu** and select **Clusters**. Palette displays your deployed clusters. The clusters
   that have the **Unknown** status need to be manually updated.

3. Select your cluster from the **Clusters** list. The cluster **Overview** tab displays.

4. Download the kubeconfig file. This file allows you to connect to your deployed cluster. Check out the
   [Kubeconfig](../../clusters/cluster-management/kubeconfig.md) page to learn more.
5. Open a terminal window and set the environment variable `KUBECONFIG` to point to the file you downloaded.

   ```shell
   export KUBECONFIG=<path-to-downloaded-kubeconfig-file>
   ```

6. Execute the following command in your terminal to view the cluster namespaces. Make a note of the cluster namespace
   that Palette has created. Its name follows the pattern **cluster-id**.

   ```shell
   kubectl get namespaces
   ```

7. Palette uses ConfigMaps to save its configuration and environment variables. Update the `apiEndpoint` value in the
   `hubble-info` ConfigMap to use the newly configured system address.

   ```shell
   kubectl edit configmap hubble-info --namespace <cluster-id>
   ```

8. Save your changes and exit the editor.

Repeat these steps for each cluster that has the **Unknown** status.

### Validate

1. Log into Palette VerteX using the configured system address.

2. Navigate to the left **Main Menu** and select **Clusters**.

3. Palette VerteX successfully displays the status of your clusters. None of your clusters has the **Unknown** status.

Commit message:

[version-4-3] docs: Add information about tenants/hostnames to Self-hosted and VerteX installation processes (#7456) (#7486)
* Backport commit

* Update install.md

* Update install.md

* Update install.md

* Update install.md

* Update install.md

* Update install.md

* Update install.md

* Update install.md

* Update install.md

docs/docs-content/vertex/system-management/ssl-certificate-management.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: "SSL Certificate Management"
title: "SSL Certificate"
description: "Upload and manage SSL certificates in Palette VerteX."
icon: ""
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 70
tags: ["vertex", "management"]
keywords: ["self-hosted", "vertex"]
---

Palette VerteX uses Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) certificates to secure internal and external communication with Hypertext
Transfer Protocol Secure (HTTPS). External VerteX endpoints, such as the
[system console](../system-management/system-management.md#system-console),
[VerteX dashboard](../../introduction/dashboard.md), the VerteX API, and the gRPC endpoint, are enabled by default with
HTTPS using an auto-generated self-signed certificate. You can replace the self-signed certificate with your SSL
certificate to secure these endpoints.

Palette VerteX validates the combination of system address, certificate, key, and Certificate Authority (CA). Ensure
that the certificate is not expired, as well as that it is valid for the CA and the system address. Additionally, the
system address must be accessible from the system console.

:::warning

You can swap out the external endpoint certificate at any time without affecting the system functionality. However,
updating the system address may require manual reconciliation on deployed clusters. Review the
[prerequisites](#prerequisites) before you proceed to ensure you have all met all requirements.

:::

### Prerequisites

- Access to the Palette VerteX system console.

- You need to have an x509 certificate and a key file in PEM format. The certificate file must contain the full
  certificate chain. Reach out to your network administrator or security team if you do not have these files.

- If you installed Palette VerteX on
  [Kubernetes](../install-palette-vertex/install-on-kubernetes/install-on-kubernetes.md) and specified a custom domain
  name, ensure that you created a certificate for that domain. If you did not specify a custom domain name, or if you
  installed Palette VerteX on [VMware](../install-palette-vertex/install-on-vmware/install-on-vmware.md), you must
  create a certificate for the Palette VerteX system console’s IP address. You can also specify a load balancer IP
  address if you are using a load balancer to access Palette VerteX.

- The new SSL certificate must also include the previous DNS name or IP address in the Subject Alternative Name (SAN)
  field. This ensures that existing connections are not interrupted.

- If you are changing the DNS endpoint, ensure both the new and old DNS endpoints are accessible for some time, ideally
  sufficient time to ensure all existing Palette clusters have been updated to use the new endpoint and that no existing
  connections are interrupted. Refer to the
  [Reconcile System Address on Deployed Clusters](#reconcile-system-address-on-deployed-clusters) section for more
  information on updating deployed clusters.

### Enablement

You can upload an SSL certificate in Palette VerteX by using the following steps.

1. Log in to the Palette VerteX system console.

2. Navigate to the left **Main Menu** and select **Administration**.

3. Select the tab titled **Certificates**.

4. Copy and paste the certificate into the **Certificate** field.

5. Copy and paste the certificate key into the **Key** field.

6. Copy and paste the certificate authority into the **Certificate authority** field.

   ![A view of the certificate upload screen](/vertex_system-management_ssl-certifiacte-management_certificate-upload.webp)

7. Save your changes.

If the certificate is invalid, you will receive an error message. Once the certificate is uploaded successfully, Palette
VerteX will refresh its listening ports and start using the new certificate.

## Validate

You can validate that your certificate is uploaded correctly by using the following steps.

1. Log out of the Palette VerteX system console. If you are already logged in, log out and close your browser session.
   Browsers cache connections and may not use the newly enabled HTTPS connection. Closing your existing browser session
   avoids issues related to your browser caching an HTTP connection.

2. Log back into the Palette VerteX system console. Ensure the connection is secure by checking the URL. The URL should
   start with `https://`.

VerteX is now using your uploaded certificate to create a secure HTTPS connection with external clients. Users can now
securely access the system console, VerteX dashboard, the gRPC endpoint, and the VerteX API endpoint.

## Reconcile System Address on Deployed Clusters

Once you have updated your system address, the clusters that were deployed before the update will not be able to
automatically reconnect to Palette if the old system address is no longer available. You will need to manually update
the API endpoint on each cluster if this is the case. This enables the Palette agent to reconnect to the API at the
newly configured system address.

### Prerequisites

- Palette VerteX access with a configured cloud account.

- A cluster deployed prior to the system address update. Refer to the [Clusters](../../clusters/clusters.md) section for
  further guidance.

- `kubectl` installed. Use the Kubernetes [Install Tools](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/) page for further
  guidance.

### Enablement

1. Log into Palette VerteX using the configured system address.

2. Navigate to the left **Main Menu** and select **Clusters**. Palette displays your deployed clusters. The clusters
   that have the **Unknown** status need to be manually updated.

3. Select your cluster from the **Clusters** list. The cluster **Overview** tab displays.

4. Download the kubeconfig file. This file allows you to connect to your deployed cluster. Check out the
   [Kubeconfig](../../clusters/cluster-management/kubeconfig.md) page to learn more.
5. Open a terminal window and set the environment variable `KUBECONFIG` to point to the file you downloaded.

   ```shell
   export KUBECONFIG=<path-to-downloaded-kubeconfig-file>
   ```

6. Execute the following command in your terminal to view the cluster namespaces. Make a note of the cluster namespace
   that Palette has created. Its name follows the pattern **cluster-id**.

   ```shell
   kubectl get namespaces
   ```

7. Palette uses ConfigMaps to save its configuration and environment variables. Update the `apiEndpoint` value in the
   `hubble-info` ConfigMap to use the newly configured system address.

   ```shell
   kubectl edit configmap hubble-info --namespace <cluster-id>
   ```

8. Save your changes and exit the editor.

Repeat these steps for each cluster that has the **Unknown** status.

### Validate

1. Log into Palette VerteX using the configured system address.

2. Navigate to the left **Main Menu** and select **Clusters**.

3. Palette VerteX successfully displays the status of your clusters. None of your clusters has the **Unknown** status.
