docs/docs-content/clusters/edge/local-ui/cluster-management/create-cluster.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: "Create Local Cluster"
title: "Create Local Cluster"
description: "Instructions for creating a locally managed cluster in Edge Host Management Console."
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 20
tags: ["edge"]
---

You can create and manage single-node as well as multi-node clusters on locally managed hosts locally from Local UI.
This page teaches you how to create a cluster using Local UI.

Unlike clusters that are managed by Palette, a local cluster is managed locally through Local UI. You can use Local UI
to create, update, scale, and delete the cluster. If your situation changes and you need central management of the
cluster, you can choose to [pair your local cluster to a Palette instance](./local-to-central.md) for centralized
management.

## Limitations

- For multi-node clusters, all hosts must be deployed in the same deployment mode. For more information, refer to
  [Deployment Modes](../../../../deployment-modes/deployment-modes.md).

- For hosts that are deployed in agent mode, all hosts must share the same Operating System (OS).

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
- For multi-node clusters, do not use the
  <VersionedLink text="Local Path Provisioner Pack" url="/integrations/packs/?pack=csi-local-path-provisioner" />. This
  is because whenever a node is drained during an upgrade or for any other reason, the volumes will not dynamically move
  with the local path provisioner.

## Prerequisites

- Network access to the Edge device’s IP and port where Local UI is exposed. The default port is 5080.

- The `stylus.enableMultiNode` parameter is set to `true` in your user data configuration. For more information, refer
  to [Prepare User Data](../../edgeforge-workflow/prepare-user-data.md).

- The `stylus.managementMode` parameter is set to `local` in your user data configuration for all your hosts.

- Credentials to log into Local UI. Any OS user can be used to log in to Local UI.

- You have uploaded the necessary software artifacts to the Edge host or included the artifacts in the Edge Installer
  ISO during EdgeForge. For more information, refer to [Upload Content Bundle](./upload-content-bundle.md) and
  [Build Content Bundle](../../edgeforge-workflow/palette-canvos/build-content-bundle.md).

  :::warning

  Content bundles must be built with a Palette Edge CLI version later than `4.5.7`, or a Palette CLI version `4.6.3` or
  later. Visit the [Downloads](../../../../downloads/cli-tools.md#palette-edge-cli) page to download the appropriate
  version of the CLI to build the content bundle.

  :::

- You must ensure your hosts have stable IP addresses. You have the following options to achieve a stable IP address:

  - Use a static IP address. Contact your network administrator to assign the Edge host a static IP address.
  - Use Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) reservations to reserve an IP address in a DHCP network. Contact your
    network administrator to reserve IP addresses for your Edge hosts in a DHCP network.
  - Enable network overlay on your Edge cluster. Network overlay can only be enabled during cluster creation. For more
    information about network overlay, refer to [Enable Overlay Network](../../networking/vxlan-overlay.md).

- To create multi-node clusters, all nodes to be included in the cluster must be linked. For more information, refer to
  [Link Hosts](./link-hosts.md).
- If you configure a local [Agent Mode](../../../../deployment-modes/agent-mode/agent-mode.md) cluster to use Network
  Time Protocol (NTP) servers, you must have
  [`systemd-timesyncd`](https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/latest/systemd-timesyncd.service.html)
  installed and enabled on your host.

## Create Local Cluster

1. Log in to Local UI by visiting the 5080 port of your Edge device's IP address or domain name. For more information,
   refer to [Access Local UI](../host-management/access-console.md).

2. From the left main menu, click **Cluster**.

3. Click **Create cluster**.

4. Fill out **Basic Information** such as cluster name and tag. Click **Next**.

   | Parameter    | Description                                             |
   | ------------ | ------------------------------------------------------- |
   | Cluster name | Name of the cluster.                                    |
   | Tags         | Key-value pairs to provide metadata about your cluster. |

5. If you built a cluster definition into your Edge installer ISO, you can either choose to use the embedded config or
   import a cluster definition file. The embedded config uses a cluster definition you included during the creation of
   the ISO image you used to install Palette Edge on your Edge host. For local clusters, we recommend the profile for
   your deployed cluster contain a primary registry to lower bandwidth usage and protect against outages. For more
   information, refer to
   [Deploy with a Primary Registry](../../site-deployment/deploy-custom-registries/deploy-primary-registry.md).

   :::warning

   If you are using a version of the Palette agent that is earlier than 4.6.21, your locally managed clusters must have
   a primary registry.

   :::

   To learn more about how to export a cluster configuration and import it during this step, refer to
   [Export Cluster Definition](./export-cluster-definition.md).

   After you finish configuring the cluster profile, click **Next**.

6. If your selected cluster profile has
   [Cluster Profile Variables](../../../../profiles/cluster-profiles/create-cluster-profiles/define-profile-variables/define-profile-variables.md),
   you are prompted to enter the values for those profile variables. Variables with default values are auto-populated.

   Enter the values for the profile variables and click **Next**.

7. In the **Cluster Config** step, enter a virtual IP address to be used by your cluster. Optionally, you can also
   specify an NTP server and an SSH public key.

   | Parameter                   | Description                                                                              |
   | --------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
   | Virtual IP Address (VIP)    | Provide the virtual IP address to be used by the cluster.                                |
   | Network Time Protocol (NTP) | Specify the IP address for any NTP servers the cluster can reference.                    |
   | SSH Keys                    | Provide the public key of an SSH key pair that you will use to connect to the Edge host. |

   Optionally, you can also enable network overlay, especially if your cluster will operate in an DHCP environment. For
   more information, refer to [Enable Overlay Network](../../networking/vxlan-overlay.md). If you enable the overlay
   network, you need to specify a CIDR range to be used by the overlay network.

8. In the **Node Config** step, you can specify configurations for worker pools and control plane pools. To assign a
   host to a node pool, click **Add Edge Hosts** in the corresponding node pool and select the host to add to the pool.
   For multi-node clusters, the leader node is a mandatory control plane node and cannot be unassigned. Additionally,
   you must ensure that you have an odd number of nodes in the control plane. Once a cluster is formed, every node in
   the control plane will be considered a leader node.

   For more information about node pool configurations, refer to [Node pools](../../../cluster-management/node-pool.md).
   After you finish configuration, click **Next**.

9. Review your configurations and deploy the cluster. As your cluster begins to deploy, the status and details of the
   deployment are displayed in the **Cluster** page. Use this page to track the deployment progress.

## Validate

1. Log in to [Local UI](../host-management/access-console.md).

2. Click **Cluster**. Verify that your cluster has entered the running status.

Commit message:

docs: patch notes 4.7.x DOC-2041 (#7575)
* docs: patch notes 4.7.x

* Update docs/docs-content/release-notes/release-notes.md

Co-authored-by: Lenny Chen <55669665+lennessyy@users.noreply.github.com>

* docs: remove one bugfix

* docs: DOC-2043 add network overlay preparation guide (#7562)

* docs: add network overlay preparation guide

* docs: add overlay preparation guide

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: svetlana-efimova <svetlana.efimova@spectrocloud.com>

* ci: auto-formatting prettier issues

* docs: address feedback

* docs: address review comments

---------

Co-authored-by: Ben Radstone <56587332+benradstone@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: svetlana-efimova <svetlana.efimova@spectrocloud.com>

* docs: PE-7232 TUI-configured static IP limitation for network overlay (#7585)

* docs: add known issue

* docs: minor wording

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: svetlana-efimova <svetlana.efimova@spectrocloud.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: svetlana-efimova <svetlana.efimova@spectrocloud.com>

* ci: auto-formatting prettier issues

* docs: add patch release version

* docs: change patch release date

---------

Co-authored-by: Lenny Chen <55669665+lennessyy@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Ben Radstone <56587332+benradstone@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: svetlana-efimova <svetlana.efimova@spectrocloud.com>
(cherry picked from commit d07c02fc6c2acb748f3bdfe73ee9cced1442a1a4)

docs/docs-content/clusters/edge/local-ui/cluster-management/create-cluster.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: "Create Local Cluster"
title: "Create Local Cluster"
description: "Instructions for creating a locally managed cluster in Edge Host Management Console."
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 20
tags: ["edge"]
---

You can create and manage single-node as well as multi-node clusters on locally managed hosts locally from Local UI.
This page teaches you how to create a cluster using Local UI.

Unlike clusters that are managed by Palette, a local cluster is managed locally through Local UI. You can use Local UI
to create, update, scale, and delete the cluster. If your situation changes and you need central management of the
cluster, you can choose to [pair your local cluster to a Palette instance](./local-to-central.md) for centralized
management.

## Limitations

- For multi-node clusters, all hosts must be deployed in the same deployment mode. For more information, refer to
  [Deployment Modes](../../../../deployment-modes/deployment-modes.md).

- For hosts that are deployed in agent mode, all hosts must share the same Operating System (OS).

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
- For multi-node clusters, do not use the
  <VersionedLink text="Local Path Provisioner Pack" url="/integrations/packs/?pack=csi-local-path-provisioner" />. This
  is because whenever a node is drained during an upgrade or for any other reason, the volumes will not dynamically move
  with the local path provisioner.

- Locally managed multi-node clusters deployed in [agent mode](../../../../deployment-modes/agent-mode/agent-mode.md) do not support network overlay.

## Prerequisites

- If your hosts are deployed in agent mode, ensure that your hosts use `systemd-networkd` and `systemd-resolved` for
  interface and DNS management. Refer to
  [Configure networkd to Prepare Host for Overlay Network](../../../../deployment-modes/agent-mode/overlay-preparation.md)
  for more information.

- Network access to the Edge device’s IP and port where Local UI is exposed. The default port is 5080.

- The `stylus.enableMultiNode` parameter is set to `true` in your user data configuration. For more information, refer
  to [Prepare User Data](../../edgeforge-workflow/prepare-user-data.md).

- The `stylus.managementMode` parameter is set to `local` in your user data configuration for all your hosts.

- Credentials to log into Local UI. Any OS user can be used to log in to Local UI.

- You have uploaded the necessary software artifacts to the Edge host or included the artifacts in the Edge Installer
  ISO during EdgeForge. For more information, refer to [Upload Content Bundle](./upload-content-bundle.md) and
  [Build Content Bundle](../../edgeforge-workflow/palette-canvos/build-content-bundle.md).

  :::warning

  Content bundles must be built with a Palette Edge CLI version later than `4.5.7`, or a Palette CLI version `4.6.3` or
  later. Visit the [Downloads](../../../../downloads/cli-tools.md#palette-edge-cli) page to download the appropriate
  version of the CLI to build the content bundle.

  :::

- You must ensure your hosts have stable IP addresses. You have the following options to achieve a stable IP address:

  - Use a static IP address. Contact your network administrator to assign the Edge host a static IP address and
    [use the network block in your `user-data` file](../../edge-configuration/installer-reference.md#site-network-parameters)
    to configure the static IP address.
  - Use Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) reservations to reserve an IP address in a DHCP network. Contact your
    network administrator to reserve IP addresses for your Edge hosts in a DHCP network.
  - Enable network overlay on your Edge cluster. Network overlay can only be enabled during cluster creation. For more
    information about network overlay, refer to [Enable Overlay Network](../../networking/vxlan-overlay.md).

- To create multi-node clusters, all nodes to be included in the cluster must be linked. For more information, refer to
  [Link Hosts](./link-hosts.md).
- If you configure a local [Agent Mode](../../../../deployment-modes/agent-mode/agent-mode.md) cluster to use Network
  Time Protocol (NTP) servers, you must have
  [`systemd-timesyncd`](https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/latest/systemd-timesyncd.service.html)
  installed and enabled on your host.

## Create Local Cluster

1. Log in to Local UI by visiting the 5080 port of your Edge device's IP address or domain name. For more information,
   refer to [Access Local UI](../host-management/access-console.md).

2. From the left main menu, click **Cluster**.

3. Click **Create cluster**.

4. Fill out **Basic Information** such as cluster name and tag. Click **Next**.

   | Parameter    | Description                                             |
   | ------------ | ------------------------------------------------------- |
   | Cluster name | Name of the cluster.                                    |
   | Tags         | Key-value pairs to provide metadata about your cluster. |

5. If you built a cluster definition into your Edge installer ISO, you can either choose to use the embedded config or
   import a cluster definition file. The embedded config uses a cluster definition you included during the creation of
   the ISO image you used to install Palette Edge on your Edge host. For local clusters, we recommend the profile for
   your deployed cluster contain a primary registry to lower bandwidth usage and protect against outages. For more
   information, refer to
   [Deploy with a Primary Registry](../../site-deployment/deploy-custom-registries/deploy-primary-registry.md).

   :::warning

   If you are using a version of the Palette agent that is earlier than 4.6.21, your locally managed clusters must have
   a primary registry.

   :::

   To learn more about how to export a cluster configuration and import it during this step, refer to
   [Export Cluster Definition](./export-cluster-definition.md).

   After you finish configuring the cluster profile, click **Next**.

6. If your selected cluster profile has
   [Cluster Profile Variables](../../../../profiles/cluster-profiles/create-cluster-profiles/define-profile-variables/define-profile-variables.md),
   you are prompted to enter the values for those profile variables. Variables with default values are auto-populated.

   Enter the values for the profile variables and click **Next**.

7. In the **Cluster Config** step, enter a virtual IP address to be used by your cluster. Optionally, you can also
   specify an NTP server and an SSH public key.

   | Parameter                   | Description                                                                              |
   | --------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
   | Virtual IP Address (VIP)    | Provide the virtual IP address to be used by the cluster.                                |
   | Network Time Protocol (NTP) | Specify the IP address for any NTP servers the cluster can reference.                    |
   | SSH Keys                    | Provide the public key of an SSH key pair that you will use to connect to the Edge host. |

   Optionally, you can also enable network overlay, especially if your cluster will operate in an DHCP environment. For
   more information, refer to [Enable Overlay Network](../../networking/vxlan-overlay.md). If you enable the overlay
   network, you need to specify a CIDR range to be used by the overlay network.

8. In the **Node Config** step, you can specify configurations for worker pools and control plane pools. To assign a
   host to a node pool, click **Add Edge Hosts** in the corresponding node pool and select the host to add to the pool.
   For multi-node clusters, the leader node is a mandatory control plane node and cannot be unassigned. Additionally,
   you must ensure that you have an odd number of nodes in the control plane. Once a cluster is formed, every node in
   the control plane will be considered a leader node.

   For more information about node pool configurations, refer to [Node pools](../../../cluster-management/node-pool.md).
   After you finish configuration, click **Next**.

9. Review your configurations and deploy the cluster. As your cluster begins to deploy, the status and details of the
   deployment are displayed in the **Cluster** page. Use this page to track the deployment progress.

## Validate

1. Log in to [Local UI](../host-management/access-console.md).

2. Click **Cluster**. Verify that your cluster has entered the running status.
