docs/docs-content/getting-started/getting-started.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: "Getting Started"
title: "Getting Started"
description: "Spectro Cloud Getting Started"
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_custom_props:
  icon: "overview"
tags: ["getting-started"]
---

This page gives an overview of getting started with Spectro Cloud Palette quickly. We introduce Palette's complimentary
subscription plans, features, workflow, and user experience session to our users.

The first step towards adopting Palette to your organization is to
[create a login](https://www.spectrocloud.com/get-started). The
[Palette Free Tier](https://www.spectrocloud.com/free-tier) gives our users the opportunity to get a first impression of
our product before making a purchase decision.

After successful account creation, Palette presents a well-organized Product Onboarding Workflow to streamline the user
product adoption. The onboarding process consists of explaining our product features, followed by a Palette experience
session. Here we furnish an easy-to-follow deployment pipeline for our users to launch their first cluster successfully.
Explore more about the feature:

[Product Onboarding Workflow](../getting-started/onboarding-workflow.md)

Commit message:

[version-3-4] docs: add existing content DOC-1065 (#2267) (#2295)
* docs: add existing content DOC-1065 (#2267)

* docs: add existing content

docs: add deploy cluster pages

docs: Update release-notes callout (#2253)

docs: revise deploy cluster

Revert "docs: Update release-notes callout (#2253)"

This reverts commit 30203a95810743b3b9a4f6ad2efe39d4afdb6707.

docs: add getting started with images

* docs: fix vale

* Optimised images with calibre/image-actions

* Update docs/docs-content/getting-started/update-k8s-cluster.md

Co-authored-by: Karl Cardenas <karl@spectrocloud.com>

* docs: make changes from code review

* Optimised images with calibre/image-actions

* docs: adjust terraform intro

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Karl Cardenas <karl@spectrocloud.com>

* docs: fix incomplete sentence

---------

Co-authored-by: github-actions[bot] <41898282+github-actions[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Karl Cardenas <karl@spectrocloud.com>

* docs: adjust getting started for version-3-4

---------

Co-authored-by: github-actions[bot] <41898282+github-actions[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Karl Cardenas <karl@spectrocloud.com>

docs/docs-content/getting-started/getting-started.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: "Getting Started"
title: "Getting Started"
description: "Spectro Cloud Getting Started"
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_custom_props:
  icon: "overview"
tags: ["getting-started"]
---

This page gives an overview of how to get started with Spectro Cloud Palette and begin leveraging its Kubernetes
full-stack management at scale. Palette's unique capabilities provide end-to-end declarative cluster management, cluster
monitoring and reconciliation, as well as adherence to the highest security standards. It provides support for public
cloud providers, data centers, bare metal and edge, so you can use Palette no matter the complexity of your production
environments.

The first step towards adopting Palette in your organization is to
[create a login](https://www.spectrocloud.com/get-started). The
[Palette Free Tier](https://www.spectrocloud.com/free-tier) allows you to experience the benefits of Palette first-hand.

The Getting Started section introduces you to the concepts and workflows you need to begin using Palette. Explore more
through the following pages.

- [Introduction to Palette](./introduction.md)

- [Palette Dashboard](./dashboard.md)

- [Cluster Profiles](./cluster-profiles.md)

- [Create a Cluster Profile](./create-cluster-profile.md)

- [Deploy a Cluster](./deploy-k8s-cluster.md)

- [Deploy Cluster Profile Updates](./update-k8s-cluster.md)

- [Deploy a Cluster with Terraform](./terraform.md)
