docs/docs-content/profiles/cluster-profiles/create-cluster-profiles/create-addon-profile/create-pack-addon.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: "Add a Pack"
title: "Add a Pack"
description: "Learn how to create an add-on profile in Palette that adds a pack layer."
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 0
tags: ["profiles", "cluster profiles", "pack", "add-on"]
---



Use the following steps to create a cluster profile by adding one or more layers using packs.


## Prerequisites

- Your Palette account role must have the `clusterProfile.create` permission to create a profile. Refer to the [Roles and Permissions](../../../../user-management/palette-rbac/project-scope-roles-permissions.md#cluster-profile-admin) documentation for more information.

## Add Pack to Add-on Profile 

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com/).

2. From the left **Main Menu** click **Profiles**.

3. Click on the **Add Cluster Profile** button. 

4. Fill out the following input values and ensure you select **Add-on** for the type. Click on **Next** to continue.

  | **Field** | **Description** |
  |-----------|-----------------|
  |**Name**| A custom name for the cluster profile. |
  |**Version**| Assign a version to the profile. You only need to specify a version if you create multiple versions of a profile using the same profile name. Default: `1.0.0`. |
  |**Description**| Use the description to provide context about the profile. |
  |**Type**| **Add-on** |
  |**Tags**| Assign any desired profile tags. Tags propagate to the Virtual Machines (VMs) deployed in the cloud or data center environment when clusters are created from this cluster profile. Example: `owner` or `region`.  |

  To learn more about creating multiple profile versions, check out [Version a Cluster Profile](../../modify-cluster-profiles/version-cluster-profile.md).

5. Select **Add New Pack**. In the next window that displays, choose a registry and select the pack to add to your profile. You can search packs by name.

<!-- Select the type of layer to add to the cluster profile. For more information about the layers, applying pack versions, configuration parameters, and presets, review [Profile Layers](../../cluster-profiles.md#profile-layers). -->

6. Fill out the required input fields and click on **Confirm & Create**.

  <!-- ![A view of the manifest create process and the YAML code in the text editior](/clusters_imported-clusters_attach-add-on-profile_manfest-view.png) -->

7. If you want to add additional layers, repeat steps 5 and 6. Otherwise, click on **Next** to review the profile.

8. Click on **Finish Configuration** to create the cluster profile.

You now have an add-on cluster profile that contains one or more packs. You can reuse the profile and apply it to several clusters. Refer to the [Update Cluster Profile](../../modify-cluster-profiles/update-cluster-profile.md) guide for more information about update operations.


## Validate

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com).

2.  Navigate to left **Main Menu** and select **Profiles**.

3. Select your cluster profile to review its layers or make changes.


## Next Steps

Now you can use the add-on profile with other profiles and across multiple environments, projects, and tenants. 

## Resources

- [Update Cluster Profile](../../modify-cluster-profiles/update-cluster-profile.md)

- [Version a Cluster Profile](../../modify-cluster-profiles/version-cluster-profile.md)

- [Profile Customization](../../../profile-customization.md)

- [Duplicate a Pack in a Profile](../duplicate-pack-in-profile.md)

Commit message:

document install order (#1928)
* DRAFT: document install order

* move install order to pack add doc; link from manifest, helm docs

* clarify 'configurable layer values'

* replace removed heading

* Update docs/docs-content/profiles/cluster-profiles/create-cluster-profiles/create-addon-profile/create-pack-addon.md

Co-authored-by: Karl Cardenas <karl@spectrocloud.com>

* Update docs/docs-content/profiles/cluster-profiles/create-cluster-profiles/create-addon-profile/create-pack-addon.md

Co-authored-by: Karl Cardenas <karl@spectrocloud.com>

* docs: new content and moved the info the index page as it applies to all layers

---------

Co-authored-by: Karl Cardenas <karl@spectrocloud.com>

docs/docs-content/profiles/cluster-profiles/create-cluster-profiles/create-addon-profile/create-pack-addon.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: "Add a Pack"
title: "Add a Pack"
description: "Learn how to create an add-on profile in Palette that adds a pack layer."
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 0
tags: ["profiles", "cluster profiles", "pack", "add-on"]
---



Use the following steps to create a cluster profile by adding one or more layers using packs.


## Prerequisites

- Your Palette account role must have the `clusterProfile.create` permission to create a profile. Refer to the [Roles and Permissions](../../../../user-management/palette-rbac/project-scope-roles-permissions.md#cluster-profile-admin) documentation for more information.

## Add Pack to Add-on Profile 

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com/).

2. From the left **Main Menu** click **Profiles**.

3. Click on the **Add Cluster Profile** button. 

4. Fill out the following input values and ensure you select **Add-on** for the type. Click on **Next** to continue.

  | **Field** | **Description** |
  |-----------|-----------------|
  |**Name**| A custom name for the cluster profile. |
  |**Version**| Assign a version to the profile. You only need to specify a version if you create multiple versions of a profile using the same profile name. Default: `1.0.0`. |
  |**Description**| Use the description to provide context about the profile. |
  |**Type**| **Add-on** |
  |**Tags**| Assign any desired profile tags. Tags propagate to the Virtual Machines (VMs) deployed in the cloud or data center environment when clusters are created from this cluster profile. Example: `owner` or `region`.  |

  To learn more about creating multiple profile versions, check out [Version a Cluster Profile](../../modify-cluster-profiles/version-cluster-profile.md).

5. Select **Add New Pack**. In the next window that displays, choose a registry and select the pack to add to your profile. You can search packs by name.

<!-- Select the type of layer to add to the cluster profile. For more information about the layers, applying pack versions, configuration parameters, and presets, review [Profile Layers](../../cluster-profiles.md#profile-layers). -->

6. Fill out the required input fields and click on **Confirm & Create**. Optionally, you can configure values specific to the layer in Helm values.yaml form, and specify the layer [install order](./create-addon-profile.md#install-order).

  <!-- ![A view of the manifest create process and the YAML code in the text editior](/clusters_imported-clusters_attach-add-on-profile_manfest-view.png) -->

7. If you want to add additional layers, repeat steps 5 and 6. Otherwise, click on **Next** to review the profile.

8. Click on **Finish Configuration** to create the cluster profile.

You now have an add-on cluster profile that contains one or more packs. You can reuse the profile and apply it to several clusters. Refer to the [Update Cluster Profile](../../modify-cluster-profiles/update-cluster-profile.md) guide for more information about update operations.


## Validate

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com).

2.  Navigate to left **Main Menu** and select **Profiles**.

3. Select your cluster profile to review its layers or make changes.


## Next Steps

Now you can use the add-on profile with other profiles and across multiple environments, projects, and tenants. 

## Resources

- [Update Cluster Profile](../../modify-cluster-profiles/update-cluster-profile.md)

- [Version a Cluster Profile](../../modify-cluster-profiles/version-cluster-profile.md)

- [Profile Customization](../../../profile-customization.md)

- [Duplicate a Pack in a Profile](../duplicate-pack-in-profile.md)
