docs/docs-content/profiles/cluster-profiles/create-cluster-profiles/create-addon-profile/create-helm-addon.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: "Add a Helm Chart"
title: "Add a Helm Chart"
description: "Learn how to create an add-on profile in Palette that adds a Helm chart layer."
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 10
tags: ["profiles", "cluster profiles", "helm", "add-on"]
---



You can extend the list of integrations by adding Helm charts from a public or private registry to your cluster profile. Use the following steps to create a cluster profile by adding layers using Helm charts.

## Prerequisites

- Your Palette account role must have the `clusterProfile.create` permission to create a profile. Refer to the [Roles and Permissions](../../../../user-management/palette-rbac/project-scope-roles-permissions.md#cluster-profile-admin) documentation for more information.

## Add Helm Chart to Add-on Profile 

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com/).

2. From the left **Main Menu** click **Profiles**.

3. Click on the **Add Cluster Profile** button. 

4. Fill out the following input values and ensure you select **Add-on** for the type. Click on **Next** to continue.

  | **Field** | **Description** |
  |-----------|-----------------|
  |**Name**| A custom name for the cluster profile. |
  |**Version**| Assign a version to the profile. You only need to specify a version if you create multiple versions of a profile using the same profile name. Default: `1.0.0`. |
  |**Description**| Use the description to provide context about the profile. |
  |**Type**| **Add-on** |
  |**Tags**| Assign any desired profile tags. Tags propagate to the Virtual Machines (VMs) deployed in the cloud or data center environment when clusters are created from this cluster profile. Example: `owner` or `region`.  |

  To learn how to create multiple profile versions, check out [Version a Cluster Profile](../../modify-cluster-profiles/version-cluster-profile.md).

5. Select **Add Helm Chart** and use the **drop-down Menu** to choose public or private packs. 

<!-- For a description of the layers, review [Profile Layers](../../cluster-profiles.md#profile-layers). -->

6. To add a chart from a public registry, choose a Helm chart from the list displayed on the next page. You can search charts by name. Pack details and the configuration file are displayed on the next page.  

  To add a chart from a private registry, select a registry from the **drop-down Menu** and provide the chart name and version. 

7. Configure parameters as needed. In the configuration file, ensure you specify a namespace. Otherwise, the chart will deploy to the `Default` namespace. 

  ```yaml
  pack:
   namespace: your_namespace_here
  ``` 

  :::caution

  Palette requires a namespace using the `namespace` parameter in the configuration file to identify the namespace on the target cluster. For more information about customizing with namespaces, refer to [Profile Customization](../../../profile-customization.md).
    
  For examples of pack structure for a Helm chart-based pack, review [Build a Pack](../../../../registries-and-packs/deploy-pack.md#build-a-pack), and select the appropriate tab.

  ::: 

8. When you are done, click **Confirm & Create**, then click **Next** to review the profile.

  <!-- ![A view of the manifest create process and the YAML code in the text editior](/clusters_imported-clusters_attach-add-on-profile_manfest-view.png) -->

9. Click **Finish Configuration** to create the cluster profile.

You now have an add-on cluster profile that contains a Helm chart. You can reuse the profile and apply it to several clusters. Refer to the [Update Cluster Profile](../../modify-cluster-profiles/update-cluster-profile.md) guide for more information about update operations.


## Validate

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com).

2.  Navigate to left **Main Menu** and select **Profiles**.

3. Select your cluster profile to review its layers or make changes.


## Next Steps

Now you can use the add-on profile you created with other profiles.  

## Resources 

- [Update Cluster Profile](../../modify-cluster-profiles/update-cluster-profile.md)

- [Version a Cluster Profile](../../modify-cluster-profiles/version-cluster-profile.md)

- [Profile Customization](../../../profile-customization.md)

Commit message:

document install order (#1928)
* DRAFT: document install order

* move install order to pack add doc; link from manifest, helm docs

* clarify 'configurable layer values'

* replace removed heading

* Update docs/docs-content/profiles/cluster-profiles/create-cluster-profiles/create-addon-profile/create-pack-addon.md

Co-authored-by: Karl Cardenas <karl@spectrocloud.com>

* Update docs/docs-content/profiles/cluster-profiles/create-cluster-profiles/create-addon-profile/create-pack-addon.md

Co-authored-by: Karl Cardenas <karl@spectrocloud.com>

* docs: new content and moved the info the index page as it applies to all layers

---------

Co-authored-by: Karl Cardenas <karl@spectrocloud.com>

docs/docs-content/profiles/cluster-profiles/create-cluster-profiles/create-addon-profile/create-helm-addon.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: "Add a Helm Chart"
title: "Add a Helm Chart"
description: "Learn how to create an add-on profile in Palette that adds a Helm chart layer."
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 10
tags: ["profiles", "cluster profiles", "helm", "add-on"]
---



You can extend the list of integrations by adding Helm charts from a public or private registry to your cluster profile. Use the following steps to create a cluster profile by adding layers using Helm charts.

## Prerequisites

- Your Palette account role must have the `clusterProfile.create` permission to create a profile. Refer to the [Roles and Permissions](../../../../user-management/palette-rbac/project-scope-roles-permissions.md#cluster-profile-admin) documentation for more information.

## Add Helm Chart to Add-on Profile 

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com/).

2. From the left **Main Menu** click **Profiles**.

3. Click on the **Add Cluster Profile** button. 

4. Fill out the following input values and ensure you select **Add-on** for the type. Click on **Next** to continue.

  | **Field** | **Description** |
  |-----------|-----------------|
  |**Name**| A custom name for the cluster profile. |
  |**Version**| Assign a version to the profile. You only need to specify a version if you create multiple versions of a profile using the same profile name. Default: `1.0.0`. |
  |**Description**| Use the description to provide context about the profile. |
  |**Type**| **Add-on** |
  |**Tags**| Assign any desired profile tags. Tags propagate to the Virtual Machines (VMs) deployed in the cloud or data center environment when clusters are created from this cluster profile. Example: `owner` or `region`.  |

  To learn how to create multiple profile versions, check out [Version a Cluster Profile](../../modify-cluster-profiles/version-cluster-profile.md).

5. Select **Add Helm Chart** and use the **drop-down Menu** to choose public or private packs. 


6. To add a chart from a public registry, choose a Helm chart from the list displayed on the next page. You can search charts by name. Pack details and the configuration file are displayed on the next page.  

  To add a chart from a private registry, select a registry from the **drop-down Menu** and provide the chart name and version. 

7. Configure parameters as needed. In the configuration file, ensure you specify a namespace. Otherwise, the chart will deploy to the `Default` namespace. 

  ```yaml
  pack:
   namespace: your_namespace_here
  ``` 
  Optionally, you can add configurable layer values and specify the layer [install order](./create-addon-profile.md#install-order).

  :::caution

  Palette requires a namespace using the `namespace` parameter in the configuration file to identify the namespace on the target cluster. For more information about customizing with namespaces, refer to [Profile Customization](../../../profile-customization.md).
    
  For examples of pack structure for a Helm chart-based pack, review [Build a Pack](../../../../registries-and-packs/deploy-pack.md#build-a-pack), and select the appropriate tab.

  ::: 

8. When you are done, click **Confirm & Create**, then click **Next** to review the profile.

  <!-- ![A view of the manifest create process and the YAML code in the text editior](/clusters_imported-clusters_attach-add-on-profile_manfest-view.png) -->

9. Click **Finish Configuration** to create the cluster profile.

You now have an add-on cluster profile that contains a Helm chart. You can reuse the profile and apply it to several clusters. Refer to the [Update Cluster Profile](../../modify-cluster-profiles/update-cluster-profile.md) guide for more information about update operations.


## Validate

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com).

2.  Navigate to left **Main Menu** and select **Profiles**.

3. Select your cluster profile to review its layers or make changes.


## Next Steps

Now you can use the add-on profile you created with other profiles.  

## Resources 

- [Update Cluster Profile](../../modify-cluster-profiles/update-cluster-profile.md)

- [Version a Cluster Profile](../../modify-cluster-profiles/version-cluster-profile.md)

- [Profile Customization](../../../profile-customization.md)
