docs/docs-content/profiles/cluster-profiles/create-cluster-profiles/create-addon-profile/create-addon-profile.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: "Create an Add-on Profile"
title: "Create an Add-on Profile"
description: "Learn how to create an add-on profile in Palette."
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 10
tags: ["profiles", "cluster profiles"]
---


Add-on cluster profiles offer a range of benefits for workload cluster deployments. These profiles provide enhanced functionality by allowing the addition of various layers such as system apps, authentication, security, monitoring, logging, ingress, and load balancers to the cluster. 

This capability allows you to customize and configure clusters based on specific requirements. Add-on cluster profiles follow a modular approach, making managing and maintaining cluster configurations more flexible. Add-on profiles also promote reusability by allowing profiles to be used across multiple environments, projects, and tenants. Additionally, add-on profiles support integration-specific packs, charts, and manifests, providing flexibility and customization options for workload cluster deployments.

The next sections provide guidance in creating each type of these add-on profiles.


## Resources 

- [Add a Pack](create-pack-addon.md)

- [Add a Manifest](create-manifest-addon.md)

- [Add a Helm Chart](create-helm-addon.md)

Commit message:

docs: new content and moved the info the index page as it applies to all layers

docs/docs-content/profiles/cluster-profiles/create-cluster-profiles/create-addon-profile/create-addon-profile.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: "Create an Add-on Profile"
title: "Create an Add-on Profile"
description: "Learn how to create an add-on profile in Palette."
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 10
tags: ["profiles", "cluster profiles"]
---


Add-on cluster profiles offer a range of benefits for workload cluster deployments. These profiles provide enhanced functionality by allowing the addition of various layers such as system apps, authentication, security, monitoring, logging, ingress, and load balancers to the cluster. 

This capability allows you to customize and configure clusters based on specific requirements. Add-on cluster profiles follow a modular approach, making managing and maintaining cluster configurations more flexible. Add-on profiles also promote reusability by allowing profiles to be used across multiple environments, projects, and tenants. Additionally, add-on profiles support integration-specific packs, charts, and manifests, providing flexibility and customization options for workload cluster deployments.

The next sections provide guidance in creating each type of these add-on profiles.



## Install Order

You can specify the install order of each add-on pack layer in a cluster profile. The install order value accepts negative and positive numbers and 0. The default install order value is 0.
The install order determines the order in which manifests in the profile are applied. The lowest-numbered packs will be installed first. Palette will wait a few moments when installing layers to ensure the readiness checks pass. 


If a readiness check for an add-on pack layer fails, Palette will keep checking the status every two minutes until the check passes. Once the readiness check passes for a pack with a lower priority, add-on layer packs with higher install priority will be installed.

A cluster profile containing several different install order values will take a few minutes longer to install versus a cluster profile with the same install order for all add-on packs. 

:::info

Palette will deploy together all packs that have the same install order. Palette will wait for all pack readiness checks to pass before moving to the next install order.

:::


## Resources 

- [Add a Pack](create-pack-addon.md)

- [Add a Manifest](create-manifest-addon.md)

- [Add a Helm Chart](create-helm-addon.md)
