docs/docs-content/clusters/edge/architecture/two-node.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: "Two-Node Architecture"
title: "Two-Node Architecture"
description: "Learn about Palette Edge and the architecture used to support two-node edge clusters."
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 0
tags: ["edge", "architecture"]
---

Palette Edge allows you to provision a highly available (HA) cluster capable of withstanding any single node failure
with only two nodes instead of three. Palette achieves this by sidestepping a critical limitation of etcd by using
Postgres as the backend storage with [Kine](https://github.com/k3s-io/kine).

:::preview

:::

## Architecture Overview

In a typical Kubernetes cluster, a cluster achieves high availability through the backend key-value store
[etcd](https://etcd.io/). When a single node goes down, etcd is able to maintain data consistency since its two
remaining nodes can still maintain quorum. However, this setup requires at least three nodes. A two-node etcd cluster
will not be able to withstand the failure of a node because even the failure of one node will cause the cluster to lose
quorum.

In our two-node HA architecture, instead of etcd, we use a Postgres database as the backend storage and a etcd shim
named Kine that allows the Kubernetes API to communicate with it as if it is an etcd server. One node is the leader and
the other node is the follower. The leader will process write requests and replicate the changes to the follower node.
Each node has a liveness probe that periodically probes the other node. When a node goes down, the other node's liveness
probe will stop receiving responses and the surviving node will remain the leader or be promoted to become the leader.

![Architectural diagram of a two-node architecture](/clusters_edge_architecture_two-node-diagram.webp)

To create two-node Edge clusters, ensure you set the `TWO_NODE` argument to `true` during EdgeForge when building
provider images, and toggle on **Two-Node Mode** during Edge cluster creation. For more information, refer to
[Build Provider Images](../edgeforge-workflow/palette-canvos/build-provider-images.md) and
[Create Cluster Definition](../site-deployment/cluster-deployment.md). If you create a two-node cluster, you must use
exactly two nodes in the control plane. You will also not be able to change it to a regular etcd-backed cluster or
change the number of nodes.

## Limitations

- Two-node clusters can only be deployed in [central management mode](../edge-native-lifecycle.md#central-clusters). You
  cannot deploy hosts in local management mode.
- Agent mode is not supported for two-node clusters because two-node high availability relies on Kairos, which is only
  used in appliance mode. For more information, refer to
  [Deployment Modes](../../../deployment-modes/deployment-modes.md).
- Two-node clusters can only have exactly two nodes in the control plane pool. You cannot adjust the number of the nodes
  in the control plane pool after cluster creation.
- Two-node clusters only support K3s. Other Kubernetes distributions are not supported.

## Use Cases

The two-node architecture prioritizes availability, but does make a slight sacrifice in data consistency in a
split-brain scenario. This architecture is most suitable in situations where the priority for availability is high, the
risk for network split is low, and a slight loss during a network split event is acceptable when compared with total
availability loss. When these conditions are met, adopting the two-node architecture allows you to save 33% of costs on
hardware alone, with further savings on cable management, operations, space, and transportation.

Example use cases include the following:

- Point-of-sale systems stationed in Edge locations such as retail stores, restaurants, and coffee shops.
- Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) gateways at factories and industrial sites.
- Automated inventory systems in retail and distribution warehouses.

## Leader Promotion After Node Failure

When the leader node of a two-node cluster fails, the liveness probe on the follower node will stop returning healthy
results. Once there are enough unhealthy responses, the follower node will initiate the promotion process to promote
itself as the leader. During this time, the different Kubernetes components become temporarily unavailable. The liveness
probe would make adjustments to the instance of Kine on the node so that its requests are now directed to the new leader
node's own instance of Postgres. The probe also performs a few SQL commands on the Postgres table to make sure that it
is ready for when the cluster comes back online.

![Architectural diagram of a two-node cluster when the leader node goes down](/clusters_edge_architecture_two-node-failover.webp)

Once all adjustments have been made, the Kubernetes cluster will come back online and start processing requests.

## Restore High Availability

When you re-introduce another node to your now one-node cluster to restore high availability, the cluster behavior is
different depending on the timestamp of the most recent state changes in the two nodes. The node with the more recently
timestamped state change will become the leader

### Restore After Failure

If you introduce a node that had previously failed, the previously failed node will drop its database in its entirety
and sync with the current leader as a follower, because the node does not have a more recently timestamped state change
compared with the current leader node. If you introduce a new node that was never part of the cluster, it will also sync
with the current leader and become a follower. No data loss is incurred in this scenario because the dropped dataset is
entirely duplicated in the surviving node.

### Restore After Network Split and Potential Data Loss

If a network split occurs, both nodes will assume the other node has experienced failure and start operating as the new
leader. When you re-introduce both nodes to the same cluster, the nodes will compare the timestamp of their most recent
state change. The node with the most recent state change is elected leader, and the losing node will drop its entire
database to sync with the leader node as a follower. This may incur a small amount of data loss, as the data written to
the losing node during the split is not retained.

![Order of operations diagram of how the two-node architecture resolves split brain scenarios](/clusters_edge_architecture_two-node-split.webp)

## Upgrade Behavior

Upgrading a two-node cluster involves a small amount of downtime for write operations. Upgrading a cluster does not
change the role of either node. Both nodes retain their original roles.

During an upgrade, the liveness probes on both nodes are paused to avoid the accidental promotion of the follower node.
Then one of the nodes is selected at random to undergo the upgrade first. Once the upgrade is complete, the cluster
upgrades the other node. Read requests will continue to be processed because one of the nodes is always available. Write
requests will be temporarily unavailable as the leader node goes down during the upgrade. Once both nodes are upgraded,
both nodes resume the liveness probes.

![Order of operations diagram of how the two-node architecture handles upgrades](/clusters_edge_architecture_two-node-upgrade.webp)

Commit message:

docs: clarify kine usage (#7276)
* docs: clarify kine usage

* Update docs/docs-content/clusters/edge/architecture/two-node.md

Co-authored-by: svetlana-efimova <svetlana.efimova@spectrocloud.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: svetlana-efimova <svetlana.efimova@spectrocloud.com>

docs/docs-content/clusters/edge/architecture/two-node.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: "Two-Node Architecture"
title: "Two-Node Architecture"
description: "Learn about Palette Edge and the architecture used to support two-node edge clusters."
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 0
tags: ["edge", "architecture"]
---

Palette Edge allows you to provision a highly available (HA) cluster capable of withstanding any single node failure
with only two nodes instead of three. In two-node HA clusters, Palette overcomes a significant limitation of etcd by utilizing Postgres as the backend storage with [Kine](https://github.com/k3s-io/kine). Kine is only
used in two-node clusters.

:::preview

:::

## Architecture Overview

In a typical Kubernetes cluster, a cluster achieves high availability through the backend key-value store
[etcd](https://etcd.io/). When a single node goes down, etcd is able to maintain data consistency since its two
remaining nodes can still maintain quorum. However, this setup requires at least three nodes. A two-node etcd cluster
will not be able to withstand the failure of a node because even the failure of one node will cause the cluster to lose
quorum.

In our two-node HA architecture, instead of etcd, we use a Postgres database as the backend storage and a etcd shim
named Kine that allows the Kubernetes API to communicate with it as if it is an etcd server. One node is the leader and
the other node is the follower. The leader will process write requests and replicate the changes to the follower node.
Each node has a liveness probe that periodically probes the other node. When a node goes down, the other node's liveness
probe will stop receiving responses and the surviving node will remain the leader or be promoted to become the leader.

![Architectural diagram of a two-node architecture](/clusters_edge_architecture_two-node-diagram.webp)

To create two-node Edge clusters, ensure you set the `TWO_NODE` argument to `true` during EdgeForge when building
provider images, and toggle on **Two-Node Mode** during Edge cluster creation. For more information, refer to
[Build Provider Images](../edgeforge-workflow/palette-canvos/build-provider-images.md) and
[Create Cluster Definition](../site-deployment/cluster-deployment.md). If you create a two-node cluster, you must use
exactly two nodes in the control plane. You will also not be able to change it to a regular etcd-backed cluster or
change the number of nodes.

## Limitations

- Two-node clusters can only be deployed in [central management mode](../edge-native-lifecycle.md#central-clusters). You
  cannot deploy hosts in local management mode.
- Agent mode is not supported for two-node clusters because two-node high availability relies on Kairos, which is only
  used in appliance mode. For more information, refer to
  [Deployment Modes](../../../deployment-modes/deployment-modes.md).
- Two-node clusters can only have exactly two nodes in the control plane pool. You cannot adjust the number of the nodes
  in the control plane pool after cluster creation.
- Two-node clusters only support K3s. Other Kubernetes distributions are not supported.

## Use Cases

The two-node architecture prioritizes availability, but does make a slight sacrifice in data consistency in a
split-brain scenario. This architecture is most suitable in situations where the priority for availability is high, the
risk for network split is low, and a slight loss during a network split event is acceptable when compared with total
availability loss. When these conditions are met, adopting the two-node architecture allows you to save 33% of costs on
hardware alone, with further savings on cable management, operations, space, and transportation.

Example use cases include the following:

- Point-of-sale systems stationed in Edge locations such as retail stores, restaurants, and coffee shops.
- Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) gateways at factories and industrial sites.
- Automated inventory systems in retail and distribution warehouses.

## Leader Promotion After Node Failure

When the leader node of a two-node cluster fails, the liveness probe on the follower node will stop returning healthy
results. Once there are enough unhealthy responses, the follower node will initiate the promotion process to promote
itself as the leader. During this time, the different Kubernetes components become temporarily unavailable. The liveness
probe would make adjustments to the instance of Kine on the node so that its requests are now directed to the new leader
node's own instance of Postgres. The probe also performs a few SQL commands on the Postgres table to make sure that it
is ready for when the cluster comes back online.

![Architectural diagram of a two-node cluster when the leader node goes down](/clusters_edge_architecture_two-node-failover.webp)

Once all adjustments have been made, the Kubernetes cluster will come back online and start processing requests.

## Restore High Availability

When you re-introduce another node to your now one-node cluster to restore high availability, the cluster behavior is
different depending on the timestamp of the most recent state changes in the two nodes. The node with the more recently
timestamped state change will become the leader

### Restore After Failure

If you introduce a node that had previously failed, the previously failed node will drop its database in its entirety
and sync with the current leader as a follower, because the node does not have a more recently timestamped state change
compared with the current leader node. If you introduce a new node that was never part of the cluster, it will also sync
with the current leader and become a follower. No data loss is incurred in this scenario because the dropped dataset is
entirely duplicated in the surviving node.

### Restore After Network Split and Potential Data Loss

If a network split occurs, both nodes will assume the other node has experienced failure and start operating as the new
leader. When you re-introduce both nodes to the same cluster, the nodes will compare the timestamp of their most recent
state change. The node with the most recent state change is elected leader, and the losing node will drop its entire
database to sync with the leader node as a follower. This may incur a small amount of data loss, as the data written to
the losing node during the split is not retained.

![Order of operations diagram of how the two-node architecture resolves split brain scenarios](/clusters_edge_architecture_two-node-split.webp)

## Upgrade Behavior

Upgrading a two-node cluster involves a small amount of downtime for write operations. Upgrading a cluster does not
change the role of either node. Both nodes retain their original roles.

During an upgrade, the liveness probes on both nodes are paused to avoid the accidental promotion of the follower node.
Then one of the nodes is selected at random to undergo the upgrade first. Once the upgrade is complete, the cluster
upgrades the other node. Read requests will continue to be processed because one of the nodes is always available. Write
requests will be temporarily unavailable as the leader node goes down during the upgrade. Once both nodes are upgraded,
both nodes resume the liveness probes.

![Order of operations diagram of how the two-node architecture handles upgrades](/clusters_edge_architecture_two-node-upgrade.webp)
