docs/docs-content/tutorials/getting-started/palette-edge/deploy-edge-cluster.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: "Deploy Edge Cluster"
title: "Deploy Edge Cluster"
description: "Get started with Kubernetes at the edge. Learn how to deploy an Edge cluster with Palette."
icon: ""
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 60
tags: ["getting-started", "tutorial", "edge"]
---

This is the final tutorial in the Edge Getting Started series. It teaches you how to deploy an Edge Kubernetes cluster
in Palette using the provider images, Edge host, and cluster profile created in the previous tutorials.

You will learn how to select the desired cluster profile, assign the registered Edge host to the cluster, configure the
number of nodes, and verify the deployment was successful by accessing the demo application included in the cluster
profile, [Hello Universe](https://github.com/spectrocloud/hello-universe).

![Palette Edge architecture diagram](/getting-started/getting-started_introduction-edge_edge-diagram-cluster.webp)

## Prerequisites

- You have completed the [Build Edge Artifacts](./build-edge-artifacts.md) tutorial and pushed the provider images to a
  registry.
- You have completed the [Prepare Edge Host](./prepare-edge-host.md) tutorial and have a registered Edge host in
  Palette.
- You have completed the [Create Edge Cluster Profile](./edge-cluster-profile.md) tutorial and have an Edge cluster
  profile created in Palette.
- You have access to [Palette's UI](https://www.spectrocloud.com/get-started).
- You have a DHCP-enabled network with one available IP address on the same network as the Edge host. You will use this
  IP as the cluster's Virtual IP (VIP) address.

## Deploy Edge Cluster

Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com/).

From the left main menu, select **Clusters**, then click **Create Cluster**. If you already have clusters deployed,
select **Add New Cluster** instead. Ensure you are in the **Default** project.

Palette prompts you to select the cluster type. Select **Edge Native** and click the **Start Edge Native Configuration**
button.

In the **Basic Information** section, set the cluster name to `gs-edge-cluster`, add a brief cluster description, and
assign the tag `env:edge`. Click **Next** to proceed.

In the **Cluster Profile** section, click **Add Cluster Profile**, select the `gs-profile` cluster profile you created
earlier, and click **Confirm**.

Review the cluster profile layers and click **Next** to proceed.

:::tip

We recommend enabling the overlay network when using DHCP-enabled networks to ensure stable IP addresses for the
cluster. However, for education purposes, this tutorials does not use the overlay network. For production use or
detailed configuration instructions, refer to the
[Enable Overlay Network](../../../clusters/edge/networking/vxlan-overlay.md) guide.

:::

In the **Cluster Config** section, provide a Virtual IP (VIP) address for the Edge cluster. This address must be an
unused address on the same network as your Edge host.

:::tip

You can use the [nmap](https://nmap.org/book/man.html) tool to scan your network and check which IP addresses are in
use. Issue the following command in your terminal, replacing the example CIDR `192.168.0.0/24` with your network's CIDR.

    ```bash
    nmap -sn 192.168.0.0/24
    ```

The output displays the IP addresses that are currently in use on your network.

:::

Optionally, you can also select an SSH key to access the cluster's nodes and specify a Network Time Protocol (NTP)
server list.

Click **Next** to continue.

In the **Nodes Config** section, provide the following details for the control plane pool. This tutorial deploys a
single-node Edge cluster with no worker pool.

| **Field**                               | **Value**                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| --------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Node pool name**                      | `control-plane-pool`                                                                                                                                                                               |
| **Allow worker capability**             | Yes                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| **Additional Labels (Optional)**        | None                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| **Taints (Optional)**                   | None                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| **Pool Configuration** > **Edge Hosts** | Select the Edge host configured in the [Prepare Edge Host](./prepare-edge-host.md) tutorial to become the node of your cluster. Palette automatically displays the NIC Name for the selected host. |

The following image shows the Edge host selection in the control plane pool.

![A screenshot of the nodes config during cluster deployment.](/getting-started/getting-started_introduction-edge_deploy-edge-cluster_cluster-deployment-nodes.webp)

Next, select **Remove** to delete the worker pool and click **Next** to proceed with the deployment.

The **Cluster Settings** section provides advanced options for scheduled scans, scheduled backups, and cluster role
binding. For this tutorial, you can use the default settings. Select **Validate** to continue.

The **Review** section allows you to review the cluster configuration. If everything looks correct, click **Finish
Configuration** to deploy the cluster.

After you create the cluster, the Palette Edge host agent pulls the provider images you built in the
[Build Edge Artifacts](./build-edge-artifacts.md) tutorial and starts the installation process.

The cluster deployment may take 15 to 30 minutes, depending on the host and cluster configuration.

You can track the installation progress in Palette. The cluster **Overview** page displays a summary of the deployment
progress, while the **Events** tab provides detailed logs.

## Validate

From Palette's left main menu, select **Clusters**.

Next, select your cluster to open its **Overview** tab.

Confirm that your cluster displays a **Running** status and is listed as **Healthy**.

When the Hello Universe application is deployed and ready for network traffic, Palette exposes the service URL in the
**Services** field. Click the URL on port **:8080** to access the application's landing page.

![A screenshot of the cluster's Overview tab](/getting-started/getting-started_introduction-edge_deploy-edge-cluster_cluster-overview.webp)

Welcome to the Spacetastic astronomy education platform. Feel free to explore the pages to learn more about space. The
statistics page offers information on visitor counts for your deployed cluster.

![A screenshot of the Hello Universe application.](/getting-started/getting-started_introduction-edge_deploy-edge-cluster_hello-universe.webp)

## Clean Up

You have successfully provisioned an Edge cluster with a three-tier demo application. Use the following steps to remove
the resources created during this tutorial series.

### Cluster and Cluster Profile

To remove the Edge cluster, log in to Palette and select **Clusters** from the left main menu. Select the
`gs-edge-cluster` cluster to access its details page.

Next, click on **Settings** and select **Delete Cluster**.

Type the cluster name to proceed with the deletion. This process may take several minutes to complete.

:::info

If a cluster remains in the delete phase for over 15 minutes, it becomes eligible for force deletion. To force delete a
cluster, access the cluster’s details page, click **Settings**, then select **Force Delete Cluster**. Palette
automatically removes clusters stuck in the cluster deletion phase for over 24 hours.

:::

Once the cluster is deleted, proceed with the cluster profile deletion.

From the left main menu, select **Profiles**. Select the `gs-profile` cluster profile, click on the three-dot menu, and
select **Delete**. Confirm the selection to remove the cluster profile.

### Edge Host

After removing the Edge cluster and cluster profile, select **Clusters** from the left main menu.

Locate the Edge host configured in the [Prepare Edge Host](./prepare-edge-host.md) tutorial. Click on the three-dot menu
and select **Delete** to delete the Edge host. Confirm the deletion by clicking **OK**. This removes the Edge host from
Palette but does not delete the underlying infrastructure.

![A screenshot of the Edge Hosts page.](/getting-started/getting-started_introduction-edge_deploy-edge-cluster_delete-host.webp)

<Tabs groupId="host">

<TabItem label="VM Host" value="VM Host">

If you used a VirtualBox VM as the Edge host, open the **VirtualBox** application on your host machine to delete the VM.

Right-click the `edge-vm` VM and select **Stop**. Then, click **Power Off** to turn the machine off.

Next, right-click the VM again and select **Remove**. Click **Delete all files** to delete the VM and its hard disk.

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Bare Metal Host" value="Bare Metal Host">

If you used a physical device as the Edge host, you can reset it to its post-initial setup state. This removes all
workloads, content, and cluster definitions from the Edge host.

To reset the Edge host, SSH into it and issue the following command.

```shell
grub2-editenv /oem/grubenv set next_entry=statereset
```

Next, reboot the host.

```shell
sudo reboot
```

Refer to [Reset Host via Terminal](../../../clusters/edge/cluster-management/reset-host.md) for more information about
Edge host resetting.

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

### Edge Artifacts

Open a terminal window on the machine you used to build the artifacts in the
[Build Edge Artifacts](./build-edge-artifacts.md) tutorial and navigate to the `CanvOS` repository.

Delete the Edge Installer ISO image and its checksum by issuing the following commands.

```bash
rm build/palette-edge-installer.iso
rm build/palette-edge-installer.iso.sha256
```

Next, delete the provider images.

```bash
docker rmi ttl.sh/ubuntu:k3s-1.32.1-v4.6.9-gs-tutorial
docker rmi ttl.sh/ubuntu:k3s-1.32.1-v4.6.9-gs-tutorial_linux_amd64
```

## Wrap-up

In this tutorial, you learned how to deploy a single-node Edge cluster along with a demo application, using the Edge
host, cluster profile, and artifacts prepared in earlier tutorials from this series. This deployment completes the Edge
Getting Started tutorial series.

We encourage you to check out the [Additional Capabilities](../additional-capabilities/additional-capabilities.md)
section to explore other Palette functionalities, and the [Edge](../../../clusters/edge/edge.md) documentation section
to learn more about Palette Edge.

Commit message:

docs: update screenshots, remove private registry

docs/docs-content/tutorials/getting-started/palette-edge/deploy-edge-cluster.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: "Deploy Edge Cluster"
title: "Deploy Edge Cluster"
description: "Get started with Kubernetes at the edge. Learn how to deploy an Edge cluster with Palette."
icon: ""
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 60
tags: ["getting-started", "tutorial", "edge"]
---

This is the final tutorial in the Edge Getting Started series. It teaches you how to deploy an Edge Kubernetes cluster
in Palette using the provider images, Edge host, and cluster profile created in the previous tutorials.

You will learn how to select the desired cluster profile, assign the registered Edge host to the cluster, configure the
number of nodes, and verify the deployment was successful by accessing the demo application included in the cluster
profile, [Hello Universe](https://github.com/spectrocloud/hello-universe).

![Palette Edge architecture diagram](/getting-started/getting-started_introduction-edge_edge-diagram-cluster.webp)

## Prerequisites

- You have completed the [Build Edge Artifacts](./build-edge-artifacts.md) tutorial and pushed the provider images to a
  registry.
- You have completed the [Prepare Edge Host](./prepare-edge-host.md) tutorial and have a registered Edge host in
  Palette.
- You have completed the [Create Edge Cluster Profile](./edge-cluster-profile.md) tutorial and have an Edge cluster
  profile created in Palette.
- You have access to [Palette's UI](https://www.spectrocloud.com/get-started).
- You have a DHCP-enabled network with one available IP address on the same network as the Edge host. You will use this
  IP as the cluster's Virtual IP (VIP) address.

## Deploy Edge Cluster

Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com/).

From the left main menu, select **Clusters**, then click **Create Cluster**. If you already have clusters deployed,
select **Add New Cluster** instead. Ensure you are in the **Default** project.

Palette prompts you to select the cluster type. Select **Edge Native** and click the **Start Edge Native Configuration**
button.

In the **Basic Information** section, set the cluster name to `gs-edge-cluster`, add a brief cluster description, and
assign the tag `env:edge`. Click **Next** to proceed.

In the **Cluster Profile** section, click **Add Cluster Profile**, select the `gs-profile` cluster profile you created
earlier, and click **Confirm**.

Review the cluster profile layers and click **Next** to proceed.

:::tip

We recommend enabling the overlay network configuration when using DHCP-enabled networks to ensure stable IP addresses
for the cluster. However, for education purposes, this tutorials does not use the overlay network. For production use or
detailed configuration instructions, refer to the
[Enable Overlay Network](../../../clusters/edge/networking/vxlan-overlay.md) guide.

:::

In the **Cluster Config** section, provide a Virtual IP (VIP) address for the Edge cluster. This address must be an
unused address on the same network as your Edge host.

:::tip

You can use the [nmap](https://nmap.org/book/man.html) tool to scan your network and check which IP addresses are in
use. Issue the following command in your terminal, replacing the example CIDR `192.168.0.0/24` with your network's CIDR.

    ```bash
    sudo nmap -sn 192.168.0.0/24
    ```

The output displays the IP addresses that are currently in use on your network.

:::

Optionally, you can also select an SSH key to access the cluster's nodes and specify a Network Time Protocol (NTP)
server list.

Click **Next** to continue.

In the **Nodes Config** section, provide the following details for the control plane pool. This tutorial deploys a
single-node Edge cluster with no worker pool.

| **Field**                               | **Value**                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| --------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Node pool name**                      | `control-plane-pool`                                                                                                                                                                               |
| **Allow worker capability**             | Yes                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| **Additional Labels (Optional)**        | None                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| **Taints (Optional)**                   | None                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| **Pool Configuration** > **Edge Hosts** | Select the Edge host configured in the [Prepare Edge Host](./prepare-edge-host.md) tutorial to become the node of your cluster. Palette automatically displays the NIC Name for the selected host. |

The following image shows the Edge host selection in the control plane pool.

![A screenshot of the nodes config during cluster deployment.](/getting-started/getting-started_introduction-edge_deploy-edge-cluster_cluster-deployment-nodes.webp)

Next, select **Remove** to delete the worker pool and click **Next** to proceed with the deployment.

The **Cluster Settings** section provides advanced options for scheduled scans, scheduled backups, and cluster role
binding. For this tutorial, you can use the default settings. Select **Validate** to continue.

The **Review** section allows you to review the cluster configuration. If everything looks correct, click **Finish
Configuration** to deploy the cluster.

After you create the cluster, the Palette Edge host agent pulls the provider images you built in the
[Build Edge Artifacts](./build-edge-artifacts.md) tutorial and starts the installation process.

The cluster deployment may take 15 to 30 minutes, depending on the host and cluster configuration.

You can track the installation progress in Palette. The cluster **Overview** page displays a summary of the deployment
progress, while the **Events** tab provides detailed logs.

## Validate

From Palette's left main menu, select **Clusters**.

Next, select your cluster to open its **Overview** tab.

Confirm that your cluster displays a **Running** status and is listed as **Healthy**.

When the Hello Universe application is deployed and ready for network traffic, Palette exposes the service URL in the
**Services** field. Click the URL on port **:8080** to access the application's landing page.

![A screenshot of the cluster's Overview tab](/getting-started/getting-started_introduction-edge_deploy-edge-cluster_cluster-overview.webp)

Welcome to the Spacetastic astronomy education platform. Feel free to explore the pages to learn more about space. The
statistics page offers information on visitor counts for your deployed cluster.

![A screenshot of the Hello Universe application.](/getting-started/getting-started_introduction-edge_deploy-edge-cluster_hello-universe.webp)

## Clean Up

You have successfully provisioned an Edge cluster with a three-tier demo application. Use the following steps to remove
the resources created during this tutorial series.

### Cluster and Cluster Profile

To remove the Edge cluster, log in to Palette and select **Clusters** from the left main menu. Select the
`gs-edge-cluster` cluster to access its details page.

Next, click on **Settings** and select **Delete Cluster**.

Type the cluster name to proceed with the deletion. This process may take several minutes to complete.

:::info

If a cluster remains in the delete phase for over 15 minutes, it becomes eligible for force deletion. To force delete a
cluster, access the cluster’s details page, click **Settings**, then select **Force Delete Cluster**. Palette
automatically removes clusters stuck in the cluster deletion phase for over 24 hours.

:::

Once the cluster is deleted, proceed with the cluster profile deletion.

From the left main menu, select **Profiles**. Select the `gs-profile` cluster profile, click on the three-dot menu, and
select **Delete**. Confirm the selection to remove the cluster profile.

### Edge Host

After removing the Edge cluster and cluster profile, select **Clusters** from the left main menu, then select **Edge
Hosts**.

Locate the Edge host configured in the [Prepare Edge Host](./prepare-edge-host.md) tutorial. Click on the three-dot menu
and select **Delete** to delete the Edge host. Confirm the deletion by clicking **OK**. This removes the Edge host from
Palette but does not delete the underlying infrastructure.

![A screenshot of the Edge Hosts page.](/getting-started/getting-started_introduction-edge_deploy-edge-cluster_delete-host.webp)

<Tabs groupId="host">

<TabItem label="VM Host" value="VM Host">

If you used a VirtualBox VM as the Edge host, open the **VirtualBox** application on your host machine to delete the VM.

Right-click the `edge-vm` VM and select **Stop**. Then, click **Power Off** to turn the machine off.

Next, right-click the VM again and select **Remove**. Click **Delete all files** to delete the VM and its hard disk.

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Bare Metal Host" value="Bare Metal Host">

If you used a physical device as the Edge host, you can reset it to its post-initial setup state. This removes all
workloads, content, and cluster definitions from the Edge host.

To reset the Edge host, SSH into it and issue the following command.

```shell
grub2-editenv /oem/grubenv set next_entry=statereset
```

Next, reboot the host.

```shell
sudo reboot
```

Refer to [Reset Host via Terminal](../../../clusters/edge/cluster-management/reset-host.md) for more information about
Edge host resetting.

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

### Edge Artifacts

Open a terminal window on the machine you used to build the artifacts in the
[Build Edge Artifacts](./build-edge-artifacts.md) tutorial and navigate to the `CanvOS` repository.

Delete the Edge Installer ISO image and its checksum by issuing the following commands.

```bash
rm build/palette-edge-installer.iso
rm build/palette-edge-installer.iso.sha256
```

Next, delete the provider images both locally and from the registry where you pushed them. Issue the following command
to delete them locally, replacing `<registry-name>` with the name of your registry.

```bash
docker rmi <registry-name>/ubuntu:k3s-1.32.1-v4.6.9-gs-tutorial
docker rmi <registry-name>/ubuntu:k3s-1.32.1-v4.6.9-gs-tutorial_linux_amd64
```

## Wrap-up

In this tutorial, you learned how to deploy a single-node Edge cluster along with a demo application, using the Edge
host, cluster profile, and artifacts prepared in earlier tutorials from this series. This deployment completes the Edge
Getting Started tutorial series.

We encourage you to check out the [Additional Capabilities](../additional-capabilities/additional-capabilities.md)
section to explore other Palette functionalities, and the [Edge](../../../clusters/edge/edge.md) documentation section
to learn more about Palette Edge.
