docs/docs-content/clusters/data-center/nutanix/install-pcg.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: "Install Private Cloud Gateway"
title: "Install Private Cloud Gateway"
description: "Learn how to install a Nutanix Private Cloud Gateway in Palette."
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 10
toc_min_heading_level: 2
toc_max_heading_level: 3
tags: ["data center", "nutanix"]
---


A Private Cloud Gateway (PCG) is required to connect your Nutanix cloud with Palette. The PCG enables Palette to create and monitor Nutanix clusters in the deployed cloud environment. This section guides you on how to install the PCG.

## Prerequisites

- A Nutanix Prism Central account with *Prism Admin* role.

- A Nutanix Prism Element cluster created.

- A Nutanix subnet created in Nutanix Prism Central that will be assigned to the virtual machines (VMs) deployed in this cluster.

- A Nutanix cloud registered with Palette. For more information, review [Register Nutanix Cloud](register-nutanix-cloud.md).

- A Nutanix Cluster API (CAPI) OS image. For guidance on creating the image, refer to [Building CAPI Images for Nutanix Cloud Platform](https://image-builder.sigs.k8s.io/capi/providers/nutanix.html#building-capi-images-for-nutanix-cloud-platform-ncp).

- A Kubernetes cluster created that has network connectivity with Nutanix Prism. This cluster will connect the Nutanix cloud with Palette via the PCG. Various types of Kubernetes clusters can be used to deploy the PCG. For guidance in  creating a Nutanix cluster to deploy your PCG, check out the [Setup] section below, that describes one possible option using the process documented in the [Nutanix Getting Started](https://opendocs.nutanix.com/capx/v1.1.x/getting_started/) resource. 


## Install PCG

Use the following steps to install the PCG in your Kubernetes workload cluster.

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com/).

2. From the left **Main Menu**, select **Tenant Settings**.

3. Next, on the **Tenant Settings Menu**, select **Private Cloud Gateways** and click on **Add New Private Cloud Gateway**.

4. Select **Self Hosted** in the next window that Palette displays.

5. Provide a name for the PCG and use the **drop-down Menu** to select Nutanix as the cloud type. Click **Confirm** to continue. You will be redirected to the Private Cloud Gateway Overview page. 

6. To install the Palette agent, copy the kubectl commands from the slide-out panel and execute them against your workload cluster.

7. Close the slide-out panel when you have copied both commands. The PCG Overview page **Cluster Status** field will display **Pending** while the PCG is deploying. The deployment is complete when the **Cluster Status** field displays the status **Running**.  


## Validate

When deployed, the PCG registers itself with Palette. Use the steps below to verify if the PCG registration is successful.

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com/).


2. Navigate to the **left Main Menu** and select **Tenant Settings**.


3. Next, on the **Tenant Settings Menu**, select **Private Cloud Gateways**.


4. Locate the PCG and verify it is installed and in the **Running** state. With the PCG successfully deployed in your Kubernetes workload cluster, you can delete the kind cluster that was used to bootstrap the workload cluster. 

  ```bash
  kind delete cluster --name pcg-pilot
  ```

## Setup

This section provides one possible method for creating a Nutanix cluster to deploy your PCG using the process described in the [Nutanix Getting Started](https://opendocs.nutanix.com/capx/v1.1.x/getting_started/) resource and the [Common Prerequisites](https://cluster-api.sigs.k8s.io/user/quick-start#common-prerequisites) it specifies. 

### Prerequisites

This process requires installing the following applications:

  - [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/)
  - [kind](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/quick-start/#installation)
  - [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl-linux/)
  - [clusterctl](https://cluster-api.sigs.k8s.io/user/quick-start#install-clusterctl) 

### Create Bootstrap Cluster 

1. Log in to your Nutanix Prism account.

2. Create a local kind cluster. This cluster will bootstrap Cluster API and provision the target workload cluster in the Nutanix account. The workload cluster is then used to deploy the PCG. 

  ```bash
  kind create cluster --name pcg-pilot
  ```

### Export Variables and Deploy Workload Cluster

3. Copy the required variables shown in the examples below to your terminal, add your environment-specific information, and export the variables. The table describes the environment variables. For more information, review the [Nutanix Getting Started](https://opendocs.nutanix.com/capx/v1.1.x/getting_started/) guide.

  | **Variable** | **Description** |
  |--------------|-----------------|
  | `NUTANIX_ENDPOINT`| The Prism Central IP address or FQDN. |
  | `NUTANIX_USER`| The Prism Central user name. |
  | `NUTANIX_PASSWORD`| The Prism Central user password. |
  | `NUTANIX_INSECURE`| The SSL behavior you used in the ``cloudClusterTemplate.yaml`` file. The default behavior is `false`. |
  | `NUTANIX_SSH_AUTHORIZED_KEY`| Provide your public SSH key. |
  | `NUTANIX_PRISM_ELEMENT_CLUSTER_NAME`| The Nutanix Prism Element cluster name.|
  | `NUTANIX_MACHINE_TEMPLATE_IMAGE_NAME` | The Nutanix CAPI OS Image |
  | `NUTANIX_SUBNET_NAME` | The subnet of the Nutanix workload cluster. |
  | `KUBERNETES_VERSION` | The Kubernetes version the workload cluster uses. Precede the version with `v`. |
  | `WORKER_MACHINE_COUNT` | The number of nodes in the workload cluster. |

  Copy the following Nutanix environment variables to your terminal, provide values, and export the variables.  

    ```bash
    export NUTANIX_ENDPOINT=""
    export NUTANIX_USER=""
    export NUTANIX_PASSWORD=""
    export NUTANIX_INSECURE=false
    export NUTANIX_SSH_AUTHORIZED_KEY=""
    export NUTANIX_PRISM_ELEMENT_CLUSTER_NAME=""
    export NUTANIX_MACHINE_TEMPLATE_IMAGE_NAME=""
    export NUTANIX_SUBNET_NAME=""
    ```

  You can ensure the Nutanix variables were successfully exported by issuing the following command in your terminal. 

    ```bash
    env | grep "NUTANIX"
    ```

  Copy the following environment variables to your terminal, provide values, and export the variables.  
  
    ```bash
    export KUBERNETES_VERSION="v1.22.9"
    export WORKER_MACHINE_COUNT=1
    ```

  To verify the KUBERNETES_VERSION and WORKER_MACHINE_COUNT variables were successfully exported, you can issue the following command for each variable.

    ```bash
    echo $variable_name
    ```

4. Instantiate Nutanix Cluster API.

  ```bash
  clusterctl init --infrastructure nutanix
  ```

5. Deploy a workload cluster in Nutanix by issuing the following command. Replace `mytestcluster` with the cluster name that you assigned to your workload cluster and `mytestnamespace` and with your namespace name. Provide the Nutanix Prism Central IP address for CONTROL_PLANE_ENDPOINT_IP. 

  ```bash
  export TEST_CLUSTER_NAME=mytestcluster
  export TEST_NAMESPACE=mytestnamespace
  CONTROL_PLANE_ENDPOINT_IP=x.x.x.x clusterctl generate cluster ${TEST_CLUSTER_NAME} \
    -i nutanix \
    --target-namespace ${TEST_NAMESPACE}  \
    > ./cluster.yaml
  kubectl create namespace ${TEST_NAMESPACE}
  kubectl apply -filename ./cluster.yaml -namespace ${TEST_NAMESPACE}
  ```

  Output

  ```bash hideClipBoard
  namespace/mytestnamespace created
  configmap/user-ca-bundle created
  secret/mytestcluster created
  kubeadmconfigtemplate.bootstrap.cluster.x-k8s.io/mytestcluster-kcfg-0 created
  cluster.cluster.x-k8s.io/mytestcluster created
  machinedeployment.cluster.x-k8s.io/mytestcluster-wmd created
  machinehealthcheck.cluster.x-k8s.io/mytestcluster-mhc created
  kubeadmcontrolplane.controlplane.cluster.x-k8s.io/mytestcluster-kcp created
  nutanixcluster.infrastructure.cluster.x-k8s.io/mytestcluster created
  nutanixmachinetemplate.infrastructure.cluster.x-k8s.io/mytestcluster-mt-0 created
  ```


### Install CNI on Workload Cluster

6. After your Nutanix workload cluster is deployed, retrieve its kubeconfig file with the command described below.

  ```bash
  clusterctl get kubeconfig $TEST_CLUSTER_NAME > $TEST_CLUSTER_NAME.kubeconfig -namespace $TEST_NAMESPACE
  ```


7. Deploy a Container Network Interface (CNI) pod in the workload cluster to enable pod-to-pod communication. For more information, refer to [Deploy a CNI solution](https://cluster-api.sigs.k8s.io/user/quick-start.html#deploy-a-cni-solution) in the [Nutanix Quick Start](https://cluster-api.sigs.k8s.io/user/quick-start.htm) reference. [Calico](https://docs.tigera.io/calico/latest/about/) is used as the CNI solution in this example.

  ```bash
  kubectl apply --filename https://raw.githubusercontent.com/projectcalico/calico/v3.26.1/manifests/calico.yaml
  ```

8. To verify that the CNI was deployed successfully, issue the following command. 

  ```bash
  kubectl --kubeconfig=./$TEST_CLUSTER_NAME.kubeconfig get nodes
  ```

  The output should display your nodes with a **Ready** status.

    ```bash hideClipBoard
    NAME                           STATUS   ROLES           AGE   VERSION
    test-cluster-kcp-qhb5h         Ready    control-plane   26h   v1.26.7
    test-cluster-wmd-gdjps-gx267   Ready    <none>          26h   v1.26.7
    ```

## Validate

Use the steps below to verify your virtual machines (VMs) are created.

1. In the Nutanix Prism Element web console, navigate to **VM**. 

2. Next, in the **Table** tab, verify the VMs you created are listed.


## Next Steps

When the PCG is in the **Running** state, you can create the Nutanix cloud account. For guidance, review the [Add Nutanix Cloud Account](add-nutanix-cloud-account.md) guide.

Commit message:

Move Setup section for PCG

docs/docs-content/clusters/data-center/nutanix/install-pcg.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: "Install Private Cloud Gateway"
title: "Install Private Cloud Gateway"
description: "Learn how to install a Nutanix Private Cloud Gateway in Palette."
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 10
toc_min_heading_level: 2
toc_max_heading_level: 3
tags: ["data center", "nutanix"]
---


A Private Cloud Gateway (PCG) is required to connect your Nutanix cloud with Palette. The PCG enables Palette to create and monitor Nutanix clusters in the deployed cloud environment. This section guides you on how to install the PCG.

## Prerequisites

- A Nutanix Prism Central account with *Prism Admin* role.

- A Nutanix Prism Element cluster created.

- A Kubernetes cluster created that has network connectivity with Nutanix Prism. This cluster will connect the Nutanix cloud with Palette via the PCG. Various types of Kubernetes clusters can be used to deploy the PCG. If you need guidance in creating a Nutanix cluster to deploy your PCG, check out the [Set Up Environment and Deploy Cluster](#set-up-environment-and-deploy-cluster) section below, that describes one possible option. 

- A Nutanix subnet created in Nutanix Prism Central that will be assigned to the virtual machines (VMs) deployed in the Kubernetes cluster.

- A Nutanix cloud registered with Palette. For more information, review [Register Nutanix Cloud](register-nutanix-cloud.md).

- A Nutanix Cluster API (CAPI) OS image. For guidance on creating the image, refer to [Building CAPI Images for Nutanix Cloud Platform](https://image-builder.sigs.k8s.io/capi/providers/nutanix.html#building-capi-images-for-nutanix-cloud-platform-ncp).




## Install PCG

Use the following steps to install the PCG in your Kubernetes workload cluster.

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com/).

2. From the left **Main Menu**, select **Tenant Settings**.

3. Next, on the **Tenant Settings Menu**, select **Private Cloud Gateways** and click on **Add New Private Cloud Gateway**.

4. Select **Self Hosted** in the next window that Palette displays.

5. Provide a name for the PCG and use the **drop-down Menu** to select Nutanix as the cloud type. Click **Confirm** to continue. You will be redirected to the Private Cloud Gateway Overview page. 

6. To install the Palette agent, copy the kubectl commands from the slide-out panel and execute them against your workload cluster.

7. Close the slide-out panel when you have copied both commands. The PCG Overview page **Cluster Status** field will display **Pending** while the PCG is deploying. The deployment is complete when the **Cluster Status** field displays the status **Running**.  


## Validate

When deployed, the PCG registers itself with Palette. Use the steps below to verify if the PCG registration is successful.

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com/).


2. Navigate to the **left Main Menu** and select **Tenant Settings**.


3. Next, on the **Tenant Settings Menu**, select **Private Cloud Gateways**.


4. Locate the PCG and verify it is installed and in the **Running** state. With the PCG successfully deployed in your Kubernetes workload cluster, you can delete the kind cluster that was used to bootstrap the workload cluster. 

  ```bash
  kind delete cluster --name pcg-pilot
  ```

## Set Up Environment and Deploy Cluster

This section describes one possible method for creating a Nutanix cluster to deploy your PCG using the process described in the [Nutanix Getting Started](https://opendocs.nutanix.com/capx/v1.1.x/getting_started/) resource and the [Common Prerequisites](https://cluster-api.sigs.k8s.io/user/quick-start#common-prerequisites) it specifies.

### Prerequisites

This method requires installing the following applications:

  - [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/)
  - [kind](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/quick-start/#installation)
  - [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl-linux/)
  - [clusterctl](https://cluster-api.sigs.k8s.io/user/quick-start#install-clusterctl) 

### Create Bootstrap Cluster 

1. Log in to your Nutanix Prism account.

2. Create a local kind cluster. This cluster will bootstrap Cluster API and provision the target workload cluster in the Nutanix account. The workload cluster is then used to deploy the PCG. 

  ```bash
  kind create cluster --name pcg-pilot
  ```

### Export Variables and Deploy Workload Cluster

3. Copy the required variables shown in the examples below to your terminal, add your environment-specific information, and export the variables. The table describes the environment variables. For more information, review the [Nutanix Getting Started](https://opendocs.nutanix.com/capx/v1.1.x/getting_started/) guide.

  | **Variable** | **Description** |
  |--------------|-----------------|
  | `NUTANIX_ENDPOINT`| The Prism Central IP address or FQDN. |
  | `NUTANIX_USER`| The Prism Central user name. |
  | `NUTANIX_PASSWORD`| The Prism Central user password. |
  | `NUTANIX_INSECURE`| The SSL behavior you used in the ``cloudClusterTemplate.yaml`` file. The default behavior is `false`. |
  | `NUTANIX_SSH_AUTHORIZED_KEY`| Provide your public SSH key. |
  | `NUTANIX_PRISM_ELEMENT_CLUSTER_NAME`| The Nutanix Prism Element cluster name.|
  | `NUTANIX_MACHINE_TEMPLATE_IMAGE_NAME` | The Nutanix CAPI OS Image |
  | `NUTANIX_SUBNET_NAME` | The subnet of the Nutanix workload cluster. |
  | `KUBERNETES_VERSION` | The Kubernetes version the workload cluster uses. Precede the version with `v`. |
  | `WORKER_MACHINE_COUNT` | The number of nodes in the workload cluster. |

  Copy the following Nutanix environment variables to your terminal, provide values, and export the variables.  

    ```bash
    export NUTANIX_ENDPOINT=""
    export NUTANIX_USER=""
    export NUTANIX_PASSWORD=""
    export NUTANIX_INSECURE=false
    export NUTANIX_SSH_AUTHORIZED_KEY=""
    export NUTANIX_PRISM_ELEMENT_CLUSTER_NAME=""
    export NUTANIX_MACHINE_TEMPLATE_IMAGE_NAME=""
    export NUTANIX_SUBNET_NAME=""
    ```

  You can ensure the Nutanix variables were successfully exported by issuing the following command in your terminal. 

    ```bash
    env | grep "NUTANIX"
    ```

  Copy the following environment variables to your terminal, provide values, and export the variables.  
  
    ```bash
    export KUBERNETES_VERSION="v1.22.9"
    export WORKER_MACHINE_COUNT=1
    ```

  To verify the KUBERNETES_VERSION and WORKER_MACHINE_COUNT variables were successfully exported, you can issue the following command for each variable.

    ```bash
    echo $variable_name
    ```

4. Instantiate Nutanix Cluster API.

  ```bash
  clusterctl init --infrastructure nutanix
  ```

5. Deploy a workload cluster in Nutanix by issuing the following command. Replace `mytestcluster` with the cluster name that you assigned to your workload cluster and `mytestnamespace` and with your namespace name. Provide the Nutanix Prism Central IP address for CONTROL_PLANE_ENDPOINT_IP. 

  ```bash
  export TEST_CLUSTER_NAME=mytestcluster
  export TEST_NAMESPACE=mytestnamespace
  CONTROL_PLANE_ENDPOINT_IP=x.x.x.x clusterctl generate cluster ${TEST_CLUSTER_NAME} \
    -i nutanix \
    --target-namespace ${TEST_NAMESPACE}  \
    > ./cluster.yaml
  kubectl create namespace ${TEST_NAMESPACE}
  kubectl apply -filename ./cluster.yaml -namespace ${TEST_NAMESPACE}
  ```

  Output

  ```bash hideClipBoard
  namespace/mytestnamespace created
  configmap/user-ca-bundle created
  secret/mytestcluster created
  kubeadmconfigtemplate.bootstrap.cluster.x-k8s.io/mytestcluster-kcfg-0 created
  cluster.cluster.x-k8s.io/mytestcluster created
  machinedeployment.cluster.x-k8s.io/mytestcluster-wmd created
  machinehealthcheck.cluster.x-k8s.io/mytestcluster-mhc created
  kubeadmcontrolplane.controlplane.cluster.x-k8s.io/mytestcluster-kcp created
  nutanixcluster.infrastructure.cluster.x-k8s.io/mytestcluster created
  nutanixmachinetemplate.infrastructure.cluster.x-k8s.io/mytestcluster-mt-0 created
  ```


### Install CNI on Workload Cluster

6. After your Nutanix workload cluster is deployed, retrieve its kubeconfig file with the command described below.

  ```bash
  clusterctl get kubeconfig $TEST_CLUSTER_NAME > $TEST_CLUSTER_NAME.kubeconfig -namespace $TEST_NAMESPACE
  ```


7. Deploy a Container Network Interface (CNI) pod in the workload cluster to enable pod-to-pod communication. For more information, refer to [Deploy a CNI solution](https://cluster-api.sigs.k8s.io/user/quick-start.html#deploy-a-cni-solution) in the [Nutanix Quick Start](https://cluster-api.sigs.k8s.io/user/quick-start.htm) reference. [Calico](https://docs.tigera.io/calico/latest/about/) is used as the CNI solution in this example.

  ```bash
  kubectl apply --filename https://raw.githubusercontent.com/projectcalico/calico/v3.26.1/manifests/calico.yaml
  ```

8. To verify that the CNI was deployed successfully, issue the following command. 

  ```bash
  kubectl --kubeconfig=./$TEST_CLUSTER_NAME.kubeconfig get nodes
  ```

  The output should display your nodes with a **Ready** status.

    ```bash hideClipBoard
    NAME                           STATUS   ROLES           AGE   VERSION
    test-cluster-kcp-qhb5h         Ready    control-plane   26h   v1.26.7
    test-cluster-wmd-gdjps-gx267   Ready    <none>          26h   v1.26.7
    ```

## Validate

Use the steps below to verify your virtual machines (VMs) are created.

1. In the Nutanix Prism Element web console, navigate to **VM**. 

2. Next, in the **Table** tab, verify the VMs you created are listed.


## Next Steps

When the PCG is in the **Running** state, you can create the Nutanix cloud account. For guidance, review the [Add Nutanix Cloud Account](add-nutanix-cloud-account.md) guide.
