docs/docs-content/clusters/edge/edgeforge-workflow/prepare-user-data.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: "Prepare User Data"
title: "Prepare User Data"
description: "Learn about building your staging user data"
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 0
tags: ["edge"]
---

The Edge Installer supports using a custom configuration file in the format of a YAML that you can use to customize the
installation process. You can provide the customized configuration to the Edge Installer as a user data file.

:::info

Review the Edge [Install Configuration](../edge-configuration/installer-reference.md) resource to learn more about all
the supported configuration parameters you can use in the configuration user data.

:::

You can also use the Operating System (OS) pack to apply additional customization using cloud-init stages. Both the Edge
Installer configuration file and the OS pack support the usage of cloud-init stages. Refer to the
[Cloud-Init Stages](../edge-configuration/cloud-init.md) to learn more.

## User Data Samples

You may encounter the following scenarios when creating an Edge Installer configuration user data file. Use these
examples as a starting point to help you create user data configurations that fit your needs.

```yaml
#cloud-config
stylus:
  site:
    # The Palette API endpoint to use. The default value is api.spectrocloud.com.
    paletteEndpoint: api.spectrocloud.com

    # The edgeHostToken is an auto-registration token to register the Edge host with Palette upon bootup.
    # This token can be generated by navigating to the Tenant Settings -> Registration Token.
    # Specify a name and select the project id with which the Edge host should register itself.
    edgeHostToken: aUAxxxxxxxxx0ChYCrO

    # The Palette project ID the Edge host should pair with. This is an optional field if an edgeHostToken is used and the token was assigned to a project.
    projectUid: 12345677788
    # Tags which that will be assigned to the device as labels.
    tags:
      key1: value1
      key2: value2
      key3: value3

    # The device's name, may also be referred to as the Edge ID or Edge host ID.  If no Edge hostname is specified,
    # a hostname will be generated from the device serial number.  If the Edge Installer cannot identify the device serial number, then a random ID will
    # be generated and used instead. In the case of hardware that does not have a serial number, we recommended specifying a
    # random name, with minimal chances of being re-used by a different Edge host.
    name: edge-appliance-1

    # Optional
    # If the Edge host requires a proxy to connect to Palette or to pull images, then specify the proxy information in this section
    network:
      # configures http_proxy
      httpProxy: http://proxy.example.com
      # configures https_proxy
      httpsProxy: https://proxy.example.com
      # configures no_proxy
      noProxy: 10.10.128.10,10.0.0.0/8

      # Optional: configures the global  nameserver for the system.
      nameserver: 1.1.1.1
      # configure interface specific info. If omitted all interfaces will default to dhcp
      interfaces:
        enp0s3:
          # type of network dhcp or static
          type: static
          # Ip address including the mask bits
          ipAddress: 10.0.10.25/24
          # Gateway for the static ip.
          gateway: 10.0.10.1
          # interface specific nameserver
          nameserver: 10.10.128.8
        enp0s4:
          type: dhcp
    caCerts:
      - |
        ------BEGIN CERTIFICATE------
        *****************************
        *****************************
        ------END CERTIFICATE------
      - |
        ------BEGIN CERTIFICATE------
        *****************************
        *****************************
        ------END CERTIFICATE------

# There is no password specified to the default kairos user. You must specify authorized keys or passwords to access the Edge host console.
stages:
  initramfs:
    - users:
        kairos:
          groups:
            - sudo
          passwd: kairos
```

### Connected Sites - Multiple User Data Configuration

In this example, two configuration user user data files are used. The first one is used in the staging phase and is
included with the Edge Installer image. Note how the first user data contains the registration information and creates a
user group. A bootable USB stick applies the second user data at the physical site. The secondary user data includes
network configurations specific to the edge location.

**Staging** - included with the Edge Installer.

```yaml
#cloud-config
stylus:
  site:
    paletteEndpoint: api.spectrocloud.com
    edgeHostToken: <yourRegistrationToken>
    tags:
      city: chicago
      building: building-1

install:
  poweroff: true

stages:
  initramfs:
    - users:
        kairos:
        groups:
          - sudo
        passwd: kairos
```

**Site** - supplied at the edge location through a bootable USB drive. If specified, the `projectName` value overrides
project information specified in the `edgeHostToken` parameter. You can add optional tags to identify the city,
building, and zip-code. If the edge site requires a proxy for an outbound connection, provide it in the network section
of the site user data.

```yaml
#cloud-config
stylus:
  site:
    projectName: edge-sites
    tags:
      zip-code: 95135
```

### Connected Sites - Single User Data

This example configuration is for a _connected site_. In this scenario, only a single Edge Installer configuration user
data is used for the entire deployment process.

<br />

```yaml
#cloud-config
stylus:
  site:
    paletteEndpoint: api.spectrocloud.com
    edgeHostToken: <yourRegistrationToken>
    projectName: edge-sites
    tags:
      city: chicago
      building: building-1
      zip-code: 95135

install:
  poweroff: true

stages:
  initramfs:
    - users:
        kairos:
        groups:
          - sudo
        passwd: kairos
```

### Apply Proxy & Certificate Settings

This example showcases how you can include network settings in a user data configuration.

```yaml
#cloud-config
stylus:
  site:
      paletteEndpoint: api.spectrocloud.com
      edgeHostToken: <yourRegistrationToken>
      projectName: edge-sites
      tags:
        city: chicago
        building: building-1
        zip-code: 95135
  network:
      httpProxy: http://proxy.example.com
      httpsProxy: https://proxy.example.com
      noProxy: 10.10.128.10,10.0.0.0/8
      nameserver: 1.1.1.1
      # configure interface specific info. If omitted all interfaces will default to dhcp
      interfaces:
          enp0s3:
              # type of network dhcp or static
              type: static
              # Ip address including the mask bits
              ipAddress: 10.0.10.25/24
              # Gateway for the static ip.
              gateway: 10.0.10.1
              # interface specific nameserver
              nameserver: 10.10.128.8
          enp0s4:
              type: dhcp
    caCerts:
      - |
        ------BEGIN CERTIFICATE------
        *****************************
        *****************************
        ------END CERTIFICATE------
      - |
        ------BEGIN CERTIFICATE------
        *****************************
        *****************************
        ------END CERTIFICATE------

install:
  poweroff: true

stages:
  initramfs:
      - users:
          kairos:
          groups:
              - sudo
          passwd: kairos
```

### Load Content From External Registry

In this example, content is downloaded from an external registry.

```yaml
#cloud-config
stylus:
  registryCredentials:
    domain: 10.10.254.254:8000/spectro-images
    username: ubuntu
    password: <yourPassword>
    insecure: true
  site:
    debug: true
    insecureSkipVerify: false
    paletteEndpoint: api.console.spectrocloud.com
    name: edge-appliance-1
    caCerts:
      - |
        -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----

        -----END CERTIFICATE-----

install:
  poweroff: false

stages:
  initramfs:
    - users:
        kairos:
          groups:
            - sudo
          passwd: kairos
```

## Multiple User Data Use Case

If you don't need to apply any unique configurations on the device once it arrives at the physical site, then your site
deployment flow would look like the following.

![The flow of an install process not requiring additional customization](/clusters_site-deployment_prepare-edge-configuration_install-flow.png)

Should you need to apply different configurations once the device arrives at the physical site, you can use a secondary
user data to support this use case.

Use the additional user data to override configurations from the previous user data that was flashed into the device or
to inject new configuration settings. Using secondary user data at the physical site is a common pattern for
organizations that need to change settings after powering on the Edge host at the physical location.

To use additional user data, create a bootable device, such as a USB stick, that contains the user data in the form of
an ISO image. The Edge Installer will consume the additional user data during the installation process.

![The flow of an install process with an additional customization occurring at the physical site. The additional customization is using a USB stick to upload the new user data.](/clusters_site-deployment_prepare-edge-configuration_install-flow-with-more-user-data.png)

When creating your Edge Installer, you can embed the user data into the installer image to eliminate providing it via a
USB drive.

In the staging phase, you may identify user data parameter values that apply uniformly to all your edge sites. But you
may also have some edge locations that require different configurations such as site network proxy, site certs, users
and groups, etc. Site-specific configurations are typically not included in the Edge installer image. For the latter
scenario, you can use a secondary user data configuration. Refer to the
[Apply Site User Data](../site-deployment/site-installation/site-user-data.md) guide to learn more about applying
secondary site-specific user data.

:::info

For your initial testing, your user data may include global settings and site-specific properties in a single user data.
As you gain more experience, you should evaluate whether secondary site-specific user data is a better design for your
use case.

:::

## Next Steps

The last step of the EdgeForce workflow is to build the Edge artifacts. Check out the
[Build Edge Artifacts](palette-canvos.md) guide to learn how to create the Edge artifacts.

Commit message:

docs: document edge management console (#2186)
* add instructions for first boot tui

* change page position

* remove QR code registration

* add cross reference

* add first boot condition

* add emc login functionality

* add draft on customizing ui

* add steps on creating local cluster

* modify build artifacts step

* docs: write about provider images

* add steps for building iso

* edit provider image

* docs: add upload content

* fix bad quotes

* fix broken link

* minor fixes

* add credential providing instructions

* fix tab item issue

* add instructions for exporting cluster definition

* add arg files instructions

* fix repeated word

* Optimised images with calibre/image-actions

* add info note on provider images page

* modify wording about user data

* add proxy configuration steps

* add new changes

* repeated word

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Karl Cardenas <karl@spectrocloud.com>

* small changes

* work on feedback

* Optimised images with calibre/image-actions

* Address feedback

* fix broken links

* fix broken links

* address comments

* address feedback

* address more comments

* address review comments

* add QR code registration back

* add note about proxy setting after reset

* add note about local registry

* Optimised images with calibre/image-actions

* docs: add note about duplicate profile layers

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Karl Cardenas <karl@spectrocloud.com>

* Update docs/docs-content/clusters/edge/edge-configuration/installer-reference.md

* fix tui acronym use

* docs: fix prereq

* update diagram

* Optimised images with calibre/image-actions

---------

Co-authored-by: Lenny Chen <lenny.chen@spectrocloud.com>
Co-authored-by: github-actions[bot] <41898282+github-actions[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Karl Cardenas <karl@spectrocloud.com>

docs/docs-content/clusters/edge/edgeforge-workflow/prepare-user-data.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: "Prepare User Data"
title: "Prepare User Data"
description: "Learn about building your staging user data"
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 0
tags: ["edge"]
---

The Edge Installer supports using a custom configuration file in the format of a YAML file named **user-data** that you
can use to customize the installation. You can provide the customized configuration to the Edge Installer as a user data
file. For more information on how to provide the configuration to the Edge Installer, refer to
[Build Edge Installer ISO](./palette-canvos/build-installer-iso.md). Additionally, you can also provide the
configuration during site deployment as site-specific configuration. This can replace, supplement, or override your
installer configuration you provide to the installer ISO. For more information, refer to
[Apply Site User Data](../site-deployment/site-installation/site-user-data.md).

:::info

Review the Edge [Install Configuration](../edge-configuration/installer-reference.md) resource to learn more about all
the supported configuration parameters you can use in the configuration user data.

:::

You can also use the Operating System (OS) pack to apply additional customization using cloud-init stages. Both the Edge
Installer configuration file and the OS pack support the usage of cloud-init stages. Refer to the
[Cloud-Init Stages](../edge-configuration/cloud-init.md) to learn more.

## User Data Samples

You may encounter the following scenarios when creating an Edge Installer configuration user data file. Use these
examples as a starting point to help you create user data configurations that fit your needs.

```yaml
#cloud-config
stylus:
  site:
    # The Palette API endpoint to use. The default value is api.spectrocloud.com.
    paletteEndpoint: api.spectrocloud.com

    # The edgeHostToken is an auto-registration token to register the Edge host with Palette upon bootup.
    # This token can be generated by navigating to the Tenant Settings -> Registration Token.
    # Specify a name and select the project id with which the Edge host should register itself.
    edgeHostToken: aUAxxxxxxxxx0ChYCrO

    # The Palette project ID the Edge host should pair with. This is an optional field if an edgeHostToken is used and the token was assigned to a project.
    projectUid: 12345677788
    # Tags which that will be assigned to the device as labels.
    tags:
      key1: value1
      key2: value2
      key3: value3

    # The device's name, may also be referred to as the Edge ID or Edge host ID.  If no Edge hostname is specified,
    # a hostname will be generated from the device serial number.  If the Edge Installer cannot identify the device serial number, then a random ID will
    # be generated and used instead. In the case of hardware that does not have a serial number, we recommended specifying a
    # random name, with minimal chances of being re-used by a different Edge host.
    name: edge-appliance-1

    # Optional
    # If the Edge host requires a proxy to connect to Palette or to pull images, then specify the proxy information in this section
    network:
      # configures http_proxy
      httpProxy: http://proxy.example.com
      # configures https_proxy
      httpsProxy: https://proxy.example.com
      # configures no_proxy
      noProxy: 10.10.128.10,10.0.0.0/8

      # Optional: configures the global  nameserver for the system.
      nameserver: 1.1.1.1
      # configure interface specific info. If omitted all interfaces will default to dhcp
      interfaces:
        enp0s3:
          # type of network dhcp or static
          type: static
          # Ip address including the mask bits
          ipAddress: 10.0.10.25/24
          # Gateway for the static ip.
          gateway: 10.0.10.1
          # interface specific nameserver
          nameserver: 10.10.128.8
        enp0s4:
          type: dhcp
    caCerts:
      - |
        ------BEGIN CERTIFICATE------
        *****************************
        *****************************
        ------END CERTIFICATE------
      - |
        ------BEGIN CERTIFICATE------
        *****************************
        *****************************
        ------END CERTIFICATE------

# There is no password specified to the default kairos user. You must specify authorized keys or passwords to access the Edge host console.
stages:
  initramfs:
    - users:
        kairos:
          groups:
            - sudo
          passwd: kairos
```

### Connected Sites - Multiple User Data Configuration

In this example, two configuration user user data files are used. The first one is used in the staging phase and is
included with the Edge Installer image. Note how the first user data contains the registration information and creates a
user group. A bootable USB stick applies the second user data at the physical site. The secondary user data includes
network configurations specific to the edge location.

**Staging** - included with the Edge Installer.

```yaml
#cloud-config
stylus:
  site:
    paletteEndpoint: api.spectrocloud.com
    edgeHostToken: <yourRegistrationToken>
    tags:
      city: chicago
      building: building-1

install:
  poweroff: true

stages:
  initramfs:
    - users:
        kairos:
        groups:
          - sudo
        passwd: kairos
```

**Site** - supplied at the edge location through a bootable USB drive. If specified, the `projectName` value overrides
project information specified in the `edgeHostToken` parameter. You can add optional tags to identify the city,
building, and zip-code. If the edge site requires a proxy for an outbound connection, provide it in the network section
of the site user data.

```yaml
#cloud-config
stylus:
  site:
    projectName: edge-sites
    tags:
      zip-code: 95135
```

### Connected Sites - Single User Data

This example configuration is for a _connected site_. In this scenario, only a single Edge Installer configuration user
data is used for the entire deployment process.

<br />

```yaml
#cloud-config
stylus:
  site:
    paletteEndpoint: api.spectrocloud.com
    edgeHostToken: <yourRegistrationToken>
    projectName: edge-sites
    tags:
      city: chicago
      building: building-1
      zip-code: 95135

install:
  poweroff: true

stages:
  initramfs:
    - users:
        kairos:
        groups:
          - sudo
        passwd: kairos
```

### Apply Proxy & Certificate Settings

This example showcases how you can include network settings in a user data configuration.

```yaml
#cloud-config
stylus:
  site:
      paletteEndpoint: api.spectrocloud.com
      edgeHostToken: <yourRegistrationToken>
      projectName: edge-sites
      tags:
        city: chicago
        building: building-1
        zip-code: 95135
  network:
      httpProxy: http://proxy.example.com
      httpsProxy: https://proxy.example.com
      noProxy: 10.10.128.10,10.0.0.0/8
      nameserver: 1.1.1.1
      # configure interface specific info. If omitted all interfaces will default to dhcp
      interfaces:
          enp0s3:
              # type of network dhcp or static
              type: static
              # Ip address including the mask bits
              ipAddress: 10.0.10.25/24
              # Gateway for the static ip.
              gateway: 10.0.10.1
              # interface specific nameserver
              nameserver: 10.10.128.8
          enp0s4:
              type: dhcp
    caCerts:
      - |
        ------BEGIN CERTIFICATE------
        *****************************
        *****************************
        ------END CERTIFICATE------
      - |
        ------BEGIN CERTIFICATE------
        *****************************
        *****************************
        ------END CERTIFICATE------

install:
  poweroff: true

stages:
  initramfs:
      - users:
          kairos:
          groups:
              - sudo
          passwd: kairos
```

### Load Content From External Registry

In this example, content is downloaded from an external registry.

```yaml
#cloud-config
stylus:
  registryCredentials:
    domain: 10.10.254.254:8000/spectro-images
    username: ubuntu
    password: <yourPassword>
    insecure: true
  site:
    debug: true
    insecureSkipVerify: false
    paletteEndpoint: api.console.spectrocloud.com
    name: edge-appliance-1
    caCerts:
      - |
        -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----

        -----END CERTIFICATE-----

install:
  poweroff: false

stages:
  initramfs:
    - users:
        kairos:
          groups:
            - sudo
          passwd: kairos
```

## Multiple User Data Use Case

If you don't need to apply any unique configurations on the device once it arrives at the physical site, then your site
deployment flow would look like the following.

![The flow of an install process not requiring additional customization](/clusters_site-deployment_prepare-edge-configuration_install-flow.png)

Should you need to apply different configurations once the device arrives at the physical site, you can use a secondary
user data to support this use case.

Use the additional user data to override configurations from the previous user data that was flashed into the device or
to inject new configuration settings. Using secondary user data at the physical site is a common pattern for
organizations that need to change settings after powering on the Edge host at the physical location.

To use additional user data, create a bootable device, such as a USB stick, that contains the user data in the form of
an ISO image. The Edge Installer will consume the additional user data during the installation process.

![The flow of an install process with an additional customization occurring at the physical site. The additional customization is using a USB stick to upload the new user data.](/clusters_site-deployment_prepare-edge-configuration_install-flow-with-more-user-data.png)

When creating your Edge Installer, you can embed the user data into the installer image to eliminate providing it via a
USB drive.

In the staging phase, you may identify user data parameter values that apply uniformly to all your edge sites. But you
may also have some edge locations that require different configurations such as site network proxy, site certs, users
and groups, etc. Site-specific configurations are typically not included in the Edge installer image. For the latter
scenario, you can use a secondary user data configuration. Refer to the
[Apply Site User Data](../site-deployment/site-installation/site-user-data.md) guide to learn more about applying
secondary site-specific user data.

:::info

For your initial testing, your user data may include global settings and site-specific properties in a single user data.
As you gain more experience, you should evaluate whether secondary site-specific user data is a better design for your
use case.

:::

## Next Steps

After you have finalized your Installer configuration, you can build the configuration into the Edge Installer ISO, or
turn the **user-data** file into an ISO file to use before site deployment.

- Check out the [Build Edge Installer ISO](palette-canvos/palette-canvos.md) guide to learn how to build the Edge
  Installer ISO image.

- Check out the [Apply Site User Data](../site-deployment/site-installation/site-user-data.md) guide to learn how to
  provide site user data.
