docs/docs-content/clusters/edge/architecture.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: "Architecture"
title: "Architecture"
description: "Learn about Palette Edge and the architecture used to suppport edge clusters."
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 0
tags: ["edge", "architecture"]
---

The following are architectural highlights of Palette-provisioned Edge native clusters.

- Kubernetes is natively installed on the host.

- Support for bare metal and virtualized edge devices.

- Customizable site properties such as network proxies and certificates.

- Configurable Kubernetes API servers to work with virtual IP address (VIP) or Dynamic DNS.

- Edge supports adding multiple devices to the site to form a multi-node Kubernetes cluster.

- Operating system (OS) images are derived from immutable container-based OS images provided by the
  [Kairos](http://kairos.io) open-source project.

- The installation is bootstrapped using a relatively small distribution-agnostic _Stylus_ installer image. The
  operating system and Kubernetes version are derived from cluster profile settings associated with the edge site and
  dynamically downloaded and installed.

- Palette Edge Distribution supports use cases that require customizing OS packages, device drivers, and more.

  ![Architecture diagram of Edge](/native-edge.webp "#title=An architecture diagram of Palette and all of the components.")

## Minimum Device Requirements

The following minimum device requirements must be met to deploy an Edge host successfully.

- 2 CPU

- 8 GB Memory

- 100 GB Storage

If Trusted Platform Module (TPM) is used, it must be TPM 2.0 or greater.

## Supported Architectures

Palette supports AMD64 and ARM64 (beta) architectures for Edge installations. However, we cannot guarantee that all
hardware and software configurations will work due to the various options available in the market. We recommend that you
test your hardware configuration before deploying to production.

:::warning

ARM64 support is a preview feature and requires Palette version 4.0.0 or later. ARM64 support is only verified for the
Nvidia Jetson Orin device family.

:::

## Palette Edge Distribution

Palette provides the following distributions for edge installations.

| Name                                                                                                     | OS               | Kubernetes Distro | CNIs            | CSIs      |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------- | ----------------- | --------------- | --------- |
| Palette Optimized K3s                                                                                    | openSUSE, Ubuntu | K3s               | Calico, Flannel | Rook Ceph |
| Palette Optimized RKE2                                                                                   | openSUSE, Ubuntu | RKE2              | Calico, Flannel | Rook Ceph |
| [Palette eXtended Kubernetes Edge (PXK-E)](../../glossary-all.md#palette-extended-kubernetes-edge-pxk-e) | openSUSE, Ubuntu | CNCF              | Calico, Flannel | Rook Ceph |

## Supported Configurations

Palette offers complete flexibility in deploying clusters at edge sites with various aspects you can customize. The
table below describes these aspects and the available options.

| **Parameter**                     | **Choices**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| --------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Cluster Mode                      | - Connected: The site has internet connectivity and the installation is initiated via Palette Management Console<br/> - Air-Gapped: The site does not have internet connectivity. Installation is initiated via the Palette CLI.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| OS                                | - Ubuntu<br/>- OpenSUSE<br/>- Bring your own OS (BYOOS)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| K8s Flavor                        | - Palette eXtended K8s for Edge FIPS (PXK-E) <br /> - Palette eXtended K8s for Edge (PXK-E)<br/>- Palette Optimized K3s<br/>- Palette Optimized RKE2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| K8s Version                       | - 1.26.x<br/>- 1.27.x<br/>- 1.28.x<br/>- 1.29.x                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| FIPS Mode                         | - True: Enforce usage of FIPS packs and other required FIPS configuration to meet FIPS compliance<br/>- False                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| Edge Host Registration Mode       | - Manual: A unique Edge host ID is manually entered into the Palette Management Console <br/> - Auto: Edge hosts automatically register with the Palette through the usage of a registration token supplied in the use-data<br/>- QR Code: Scan a QR code that takes you to a web application that registers the Edge host with Palette. This method is considered advanced with the benefit of simplifying the Edge host registration without needing a tenant token or a manual entry. |
| Edge Host Type - Installer Format | Create an ISO image that contains all your dependencies and custom configurations.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |

## Kubernetes Defaults

The following items are disabled by default for RKE2 and K3s.

- Traefik

- SERVICE-lb

- local-path provisioner

- Flannel

**Example Scenario:**

For the Palette optimized K3s pack, the default network component flannel is disabled to allow the user to independently
use any container network interface pack such as Flannel or others, as part of the network layer of a cluster profile.

The component metrics server is disabled to avoid duplicating it because Palette installs the metrics server by default.

```
cluster:
 config:
   # disable the built in cni
   flannel-backend: none
   no-flannel: true
   disable-network-policy: true
   Disable:
     - metrics-server
```

Commit message:

docs: add new hardware requirements (#2804)
* add new hardware req

* edit architecture page

* minor edits

---------

Co-authored-by: Lenny Chen <lenny.chen@spectrocloud.com>

docs/docs-content/clusters/edge/architecture.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: "Architecture"
title: "Architecture"
description: "Learn about Palette Edge and the architecture used to suppport edge clusters."
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 0
tags: ["edge", "architecture"]
---

The following are architectural highlights of Palette-provisioned Edge native clusters.

- Kubernetes is natively installed on the host.

- Support for bare metal and virtualized edge devices.

- Customizable site properties such as network proxies and certificates.

- Configurable Kubernetes API servers to work with virtual IP address (VIP) or Dynamic DNS.

- Edge supports adding multiple devices to the site to form a multi-node Kubernetes cluster.

- Operating system (OS) images are derived from immutable container-based OS images provided by the
  [Kairos](http://kairos.io) open-source project.

- The installation is bootstrapped using a relatively small distribution-agnostic _Stylus_ installer image. The
  operating system and Kubernetes version are derived from cluster profile settings associated with the edge site and
  dynamically downloaded and installed.

- Palette Edge Distribution supports use cases that require customizing OS packages, device drivers, and more.

  ![Architecture diagram of Edge](/native-edge.webp "#title=An architecture diagram of Palette and all of the components.")

## Minimum Device Requirements

All Edge hosts must meet the following minimum hardware requirements. For specific features, additional hardware
capabilities may be needed. Refer to [Hardware Requirements](./hardware-requirements.md) for details.

### AMD64 Architecture Devices

| Component | Requirement                                                                                                                                               |
| --------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| CPU       | - Intel: i3, i5, i7, i9, Xeon series <br /> - AMD: Ryzen 3, 5, 7, 9, and Epyc series                                                                      |
| CPU Core  | Minimum two cores.                                                                                                                                        |
| Memory    | Minimum 8 GB.                                                                                                                                             |
| Storage   | Main drive requires a minimum of 100 GB storage to accommodate the Operating System (OS), Kubernetes, and workloads. The main drive must be an SSD drive. |

### ARM64 Architecture Devices

ARM64 support is only verified for the Nvidia Jetson Orin device family.

## Palette Edge Distribution

Palette provides the following distributions for edge installations.

| Name                                                                                                     | OS               | Kubernetes Distro | CNIs            | CSIs      |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------- | ----------------- | --------------- | --------- |
| Palette Optimized K3s                                                                                    | openSUSE, Ubuntu | K3s               | Calico, Flannel | Rook Ceph |
| Palette Optimized RKE2                                                                                   | openSUSE, Ubuntu | RKE2              | Calico, Flannel | Rook Ceph |
| [Palette eXtended Kubernetes Edge (PXK-E)](../../glossary-all.md#palette-extended-kubernetes-edge-pxk-e) | openSUSE, Ubuntu | CNCF              | Calico, Flannel | Rook Ceph |

## Supported Configurations

Palette offers complete flexibility in deploying clusters at edge sites with various aspects you can customize. The
table below describes these aspects and the available options.

| **Parameter**                     | **Choices**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| --------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Cluster Mode                      | - Connected: The site has internet connectivity and the installation is initiated via Palette Management Console<br/> - Air-Gapped: The site does not have internet connectivity. Installation is initiated via the Palette CLI.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| OS                                | - Ubuntu<br/>- OpenSUSE<br/>- Bring your own OS (BYOOS)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| K8s Flavor                        | - Palette eXtended K8s for Edge FIPS (PXK-E) <br /> - Palette eXtended K8s for Edge (PXK-E)<br/>- Palette Optimized K3s<br/>- Palette Optimized RKE2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| K8s Version                       | - 1.26.x<br/>- 1.27.x<br/>- 1.28.x<br/>- 1.29.x                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| FIPS Mode                         | - True: Enforce usage of FIPS packs and other required FIPS configuration to meet FIPS compliance<br/>- False                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| Edge Host Registration Mode       | - Manual: A unique Edge host ID is manually entered into the Palette Management Console <br/> - Auto: Edge hosts automatically register with the Palette through the usage of a registration token supplied in the use-data<br/>- QR Code: Scan a QR code that takes you to a web application that registers the Edge host with Palette. This method is considered advanced with the benefit of simplifying the Edge host registration without needing a tenant token or a manual entry. |
| Edge Host Type - Installer Format | Create an ISO image that contains all your dependencies and custom configurations.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |

## Kubernetes Defaults

The following items are disabled by default for RKE2 and K3s.

- Traefik

- SERVICE-lb

- local-path provisioner

- Flannel

**Example Scenario:**

For the Palette optimized K3s pack, the default network component flannel is disabled to allow the user to independently
use any container network interface pack such as Flannel or others, as part of the network layer of a cluster profile.

The component metrics server is disabled to avoid duplicating it because Palette installs the metrics server by default.

```
cluster:
 config:
   # disable the built in cni
   flannel-backend: none
   no-flannel: true
   disable-network-policy: true
   Disable:
     - metrics-server
```
