docs/docs-content/clusters/edge/hardware-requirements.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: "Hardware Requirements"
title: "Hardware Requirements"
description: "Learn about the hardware requirements for Palette Edge hosts."
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 0
tags: ["edge", "architecture"]
---

An Edge host must meet the minimum hardware requirements to be deployed successfully. Certain features such as Virtual
Machine Orchestrator (VMO) require additional hardware capabilities. This page provides general guidance on the minimum
hardware requirements for your Edge hosts.

:::info

Due to variations in hardware and firmware capabilities, in addition to different workloads required by each user, you
should always verify and evaluate specific devices with Palette Edge as part of solution design. To learn more, contact
Spectro Cloud sales at sales@spectrocloud.com.

:::

## Minimum Requirements

All Edge hosts must meet the following minimum hardware requirements.

### AMD64 Architecture Devices

| Component | Requirement                                                                                                                                               |
| --------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| CPU       | - Intel: i3, i5, i7, i9, Xeon series <br /> - AMD: Ryzen 3, 5, 7, 9, and Epyc series                                                                      |
| CPU Core  | Minimum two cores.                                                                                                                                        |
| Memory    | Minimum 8 GB.                                                                                                                                             |
| Storage   | Main drive requires a minimum of 100 GB storage to accommodate the Operating System (OS), Kubernetes, and workloads. The main drive must be an SSD drive. |

### ARM64 Architecture Devices

ARM64 support is only verified for the Nvidia Jetson Orin device family.

## Virtual Machine Operator (VMO)

To operate VMO on edge clusters, the CPUs of the constituent Edge hosts must have the following virtualization
technologies.

- Intel: Intel Virtualization Technology for x86 (VT-d) or Intel Virtualization Technology for Directed I/O (VT-x)
- AMD: AMD Virtualization (AMD-V)

For more information, refer to [Virtual Machine Orchestrator](../../vm-management/vm-management.md).

Commit message:

docs: add EFI check documentation

docs/docs-content/clusters/edge/hardware-requirements.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: "Hardware Requirements"
title: "Hardware Requirements"
description: "Learn about the hardware requirements for Palette Edge hosts."
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 0
tags: ["edge", "architecture"]
---

An Edge host must meet the minimum hardware requirements to be deployed successfully. Certain features such as Virtual
Machine Orchestrator (VMO) require additional hardware capabilities. This page provides general guidance on the minimum
hardware requirements for your Edge hosts.

:::info

Due to variations in hardware and firmware capabilities, in addition to different workloads required by each user, you
should always verify and evaluate specific devices with Palette Edge as part of solution design. To learn more, contact
Spectro Cloud sales at sales@spectrocloud.com.

:::

## Minimum Requirements

All Edge hosts must meet the following minimum hardware requirements.

### AMD64 Architecture Devices

| Component | Requirement                                                                                                                                               |
| --------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| CPU       | - Intel: i3, i5, i7, i9, Xeon series <br /> - AMD: Ryzen 3, 5, 7, 9, and Epyc series                                                                      |
| CPU Core  | Minimum two cores.                                                                                                                                        |
| Memory    | Minimum 8 GB.                                                                                                                                             |
| Storage   | Main drive requires a minimum of 100 GB storage to accommodate the Operating System (OS), Kubernetes, and workloads. The main drive must be an SSD drive. |

### ARM64 Architecture Devices

ARM64 support is only verified for the Nvidia Jetson Orin device family.

## Trusted Boot

To use Trusted Boot, your Edge host must meet the following additional requirements:

- Edge host must have a Trusted Plat Module (TPM) 2.0 or later.
- Edge host must support Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI) boot options.
- Edge host must be capable of booting Extensible Firmware Interface (EFI) files of size 850 MB or greater. Refer to
  [Check Hardware EFI Boot Limit](/docs/docs-content/clusters/edge/trusted-boot/edgeforge/check-efi-limit.md) for a
  rough estimate of your EFI boot limit. For a more precise determination, contact sales@spectrocloud.com.

## Virtual Machine Operator (VMO)

To operate VMO on edge clusters, the CPUs of the constituent Edge hosts must have the following virtualization
technologies.

- Intel: Intel Virtualization Technology for x86 (VT-d) or Intel Virtualization Technology for Directed I/O (VT-x)
- AMD: AMD Virtualization (AMD-V)

For more information, refer to [Virtual Machine Orchestrator](../../vm-management/vm-management.md).
