docs/docs-content/self-hosted-setup/palette/vmware/upgrade/upgrade.md, before:

:::danger

The below content is from the former [Palette Upgrade](https://docs.spectrocloud.com/enterprise-version/upgrade/) page.
Convert to partials and refactor where necessary.

:::

This page offers links and reference information for upgrading self-hosted Palette instances. If you have questions or
concerns, [reach out to our support team](http://support.spectrocloud.io/).

:::tip

If you are using Palette VerteX, refer to the [VerteX Upgrade](../../vertex/upgrade/upgrade.md) page for upgrade
guidance.

:::

### Private Cloud Gateway

If your setup includes a PCG, make sure to
[allow the PCG to upgrade automatically](../../clusters/pcg/manage-pcg/pcg-upgrade.md) before each major or minor
Palette upgrade.

## Supported Upgrade Paths

Refer to the following tables for the supported self-hosted Palette upgrade paths for
[VMware](../install-palette/install-on-vmware/install-on-vmware.md) and
[Kubernetes](../install-palette/install-on-kubernetes/install-on-kubernetes.md) installations.

:::danger

Before upgrading Palette to a new major version, you must first update it to the latest patch version of the latest
minor version available.

:::

:::warning

Upgrading self-hosted Palette or Palette VerteX from version 4.6.x to 4.7.x can cause the upgrade to hang if any member
of the MongoDB ReplicaSet is not fully synced and in a healthy state prior to the upgrade. For guidance on verifying the
health status of MongoDB ReplicaSet members, refer to our
[Troubleshooting](../../troubleshooting/palette-upgrade.md#self-hosted-palette-or-palette-vertex-upgrade-hangs) guide.

:::

**4.7.x**

| **Source Version** | **Target Version** |    **Support**     |
| :----------------: | :----------------: | :----------------: |
|       4.7.16       |       4.7.20       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.7.15       |       4.7.20       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.7.3        |       4.7.20       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.7.3        |       4.7.15       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.41       |       4.7.20       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.41       |       4.7.15       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.41       |       4.7.3        | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.6        |       4.7.15       | :white_check_mark: |

**4.6.x**

| **Source Version** | **Target Version** |    **Support**     |
| :----------------: | :----------------: | :----------------: |
|       4.6.41       |       4.6.43       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.36       |       4.6.43       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.36       |       4.6.41       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.32       |       4.6.43       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.32       |       4.6.41       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.32       |       4.6.34       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.28       |       4.6.43       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.28       |       4.6.41       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.28       |       4.6.34       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.28       |       4.6.32       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.26       |       4.6.43       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.26       |       4.6.41       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.26       |       4.6.34       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.26       |       4.6.32       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.25       |       4.6.43       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.25       |       4.6.41       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.25       |       4.6.34       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.25       |       4.6.32       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.24       |       4.6.43       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.24       |       4.6.41       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.24       |       4.6.34       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.24       |       4.6.32       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.23       |       4.6.43       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.23       |       4.6.41       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.23       |       4.6.34       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.23       |       4.6.32       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.23       |       4.6.28       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.23       |       4.6.24       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.18       |       4.6.43       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.18       |       4.6.41       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.18       |       4.6.34       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.18       |       4.6.32       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.18       |       4.6.28       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.18       |       4.6.24       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.18       |       4.6.23       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.13       |       4.6.43       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.13       |       4.6.41       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.13       |       4.6.34       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.13       |       4.6.32       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.13       |       4.6.28       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.13       |       4.6.24       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.13       |       4.6.23       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.13       |       4.6.18       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.12       |       4.6.43       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.12       |       4.6.41       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.12       |       4.6.34       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.12       |       4.6.32       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.12       |       4.6.28       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.12       |       4.6.24       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.12       |       4.6.23       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.12       |       4.6.18       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.12       |       4.6.13       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.9        |       4.6.43       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.9        |       4.6.41       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.9        |       4.6.34       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.9        |       4.6.32       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.9        |       4.6.28       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.9        |       4.6.24       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.9        |       4.6.23       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.9        |       4.6.18       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.9        |       4.6.13       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.9        |       4.6.12       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.8        |       4.6.43       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.8        |       4.6.41       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.8        |       4.6.34       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.8        |       4.6.32       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.8        |       4.6.28       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.8        |       4.6.24       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.8        |       4.6.23       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.8        |       4.6.18       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.8        |       4.6.13       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.8        |       4.6.12       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.8        |       4.6.9        | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.7        |       4.6.43       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.7        |       4.6.41       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.7        |       4.6.34       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.7        |       4.6.32       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.7        |       4.6.28       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.7        |       4.6.24       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.7        |       4.6.23       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.7        |       4.6.18       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.7        |       4.6.13       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.7        |       4.6.12       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.7        |       4.6.9        | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.7        |       4.6.8        | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.6        |       4.6.43       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.6        |       4.6.41       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.6        |       4.6.34       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.6        |       4.6.32       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.6        |       4.6.28       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.6        |       4.6.24       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.6        |       4.6.23       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.6        |       4.6.18       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.6        |       4.6.13       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.6        |       4.6.12       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.6        |       4.6.9        | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.6        |       4.6.8        | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.6        |       4.6.7        | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.23       |       4.6.43       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.23       |       4.6.41       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.23       |       4.6.34       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.23       |       4.6.32       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.23       |       4.6.28       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.23       |       4.6.24       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.23       |       4.6.23       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.23       |       4.6.18       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.21       |       4.6.43       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.21       |       4.6.41       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.21       |       4.6.34       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.21       |       4.6.32       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.21       |       4.6.28       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.21       |       4.6.24       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.21       |       4.6.23       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.21       |       4.6.18       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.21       |       4.6.13       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.21       |       4.6.12       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.21       |       4.6.9        | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.21       |       4.6.8        | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.21       |       4.6.7        | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.21       |       4.6.6        | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.20       |       4.6.43       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.20       |       4.6.41       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.20       |       4.6.34       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.20       |       4.6.32       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.20       |       4.6.28       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.20       |       4.6.24       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.20       |       4.6.23       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.20       |       4.6.18       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.20       |       4.6.13       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.20       |       4.6.12       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.20       |       4.6.9        | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.20       |       4.6.8        | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.20       |       4.6.7        | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.20       |       4.6.6        | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.24       |       4.6.43       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.24       |       4.6.41       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.24       |       4.6.34       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.24       |       4.6.32       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.24       |       4.6.28       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.24       |       4.6.24       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.24       |       4.6.23       | :white_check_mark: |

**4.5.x**

| **Source Version** | **Target Version** |    **Support**     |
| :----------------: | :----------------: | :----------------: |
|       4.5.21       |       4.5.23       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.20       |       4.5.23       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.20       |       4.5.21       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.15       |       4.5.23       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.15       |       4.5.21       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.15       |       4.5.20       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.11       |       4.5.23       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.11       |       4.5.21       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.11       |       4.5.20       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.11       |       4.5.15       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.8        |       4.5.23       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.8        |       4.5.21       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.8        |       4.5.20       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.8        |       4.5.15       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.8        |       4.5.11       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.4        |       4.5.23       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.4        |       4.5.21       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.4        |       4.5.20       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.4        |       4.5.15       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.4        |       4.5.11       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.4        |       4.5.8        | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.24       |       4.5.23       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.20       |       4.5.23       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.20       |       4.5.21       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.20       |       4.5.20       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.20       |       4.5.15       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.20       |       4.5.11       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.20       |       4.5.8        | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.20       |       4.5.4        | :white_check_mark: |

**4.4.x**

| **Source Version** | **Target Version** |    **Support**     |
| :----------------: | :----------------: | :----------------: |
|       4.4.20       |       4.4.23       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.18       |       4.4.23       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.18       |       4.4.20       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.14       |       4.4.23       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.14       |       4.4.20       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.14       |       4.4.18       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.11       |       4.4.23       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.11       |       4.4.20       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.11       |       4.4.18       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.11       |       4.4.14       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.6        |       4.4.23       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.6        |       4.4.20       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.6        |       4.4.18       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.6        |       4.4.14       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.6        |       4.4.11       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.3.6        |       4.4.23       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.3.6        |       4.4.20       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.3.6        |       4.4.18       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.3.6        |       4.4.14       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.3.6        |       4.4.11       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.3.6        |       4.4.6        | :white_check_mark: |

**4.3.x and Prior**

| **Source Version** | **Target Version** |    **Support**     |
| :----------------: | :----------------: | :----------------: |
|       4.2.13       |       4.3.6        | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.2.7        |       4.2.13       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.1.x        |       4.3.6        |        :x:         |
|       4.1.12       |       4.2.7        | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.1.12       |       4.1.13       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.1.7        |       4.2.7        | :white_check_mark: |

Commit message:

Rough draft of self-hosted structure complete; links, redirects, and title updates needed

docs/docs-content/self-hosted-setup/palette/vmware/upgrade/upgrade.md, after:

:::danger

The below content is from the former [Palette Upgrade](https://docs.spectrocloud.com/enterprise-version/upgrade/) page.
Convert to partials and refactor where necessary.

:::

This page offers links and reference information for upgrading self-hosted Palette instances. If you have questions or
concerns, [reach out to our support team](http://support.spectrocloud.io/).

:::tip

If you are using Palette VerteX, refer to the [VerteX Upgrade](../../vertex/upgrade/upgrade.md) page for upgrade
guidance.

:::

### Private Cloud Gateway

If your setup includes a PCG, make sure to
[allow the PCG to upgrade automatically](../../clusters/pcg/manage-pcg/pcg-upgrade.md) before each major or minor
Palette upgrade.

## Upgrade Notes

Refer to the following known issues before upgrading:

- Upgrading self-hosted Palette or Palette VerteX from version 4.6.x to 4.7.x can cause the upgrade to hang if any
  member of the MongoDB ReplicaSet is not fully synced and in a healthy state prior to the upgrade. For guidance on
  verifying the health status of MongoDB ReplicaSet members, refer to our
  [Troubleshooting](../../troubleshooting/palette-upgrade.md#self-hosted-palette-or-palette-vertex-upgrade-hangs) guide.

- A known issue impacts all self-hosted Palette instances older then 4.4.14. Before upgrading an Palette instance with
  version older than 4.4.14, ensure that you execute a utility script to make all your cluster IDs unique in your
  Persistent Volume Claim (PVC) metadata. For more information, refer to the
  [Troubleshooting Guide](../../troubleshooting/enterprise-install.md#scenario---non-unique-vsphere-cns-mapping).

- Prior to upgrading VMware vSphere VerteX installations from version 4.3.x to 4.4.x, complete the steps outlined in the
  [Mongo DNS ConfigMap Issue](../../troubleshooting/palette-upgrade.md#mongo-dns-configmap-value-is-incorrect) guide.
  Addressing this Mongo DNS issue will prevent system pods from experiencing _CrashLoopBackOff_ errors after the
  upgrade.

  After the upgrade, if Enterprise Cluster backups are stuck, refer to the
  [Enterprise Backup Stuck](../../troubleshooting/enterprise-install.md#scenario---enterprise-backup-stuck)
  troubleshooting guide for resolution steps.

## Supported Upgrade Paths

Refer to the following tables for the supported self-hosted Palette upgrade paths for
[VMware](../install-palette/install-on-vmware/install-on-vmware.md) and
[Kubernetes](../install-palette/install-on-kubernetes/install-on-kubernetes.md) installations.

:::danger

Before upgrading Palette to a new major version, you must first update it to the latest patch version of the latest
minor version available.

:::

**4.7.x**

| **Source Version** | **Target Version** |    **Support**     |
| :----------------: | :----------------: | :----------------: |
|       4.7.16       |       4.7.20       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.7.15       |       4.7.20       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.7.3        |       4.7.20       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.7.3        |       4.7.15       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.41       |       4.7.20       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.41       |       4.7.15       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.41       |       4.7.3        | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.6        |       4.7.15       | :white_check_mark: |

**4.6.x**

| **Source Version** | **Target Version** |    **Support**     |
| :----------------: | :----------------: | :----------------: |
|       4.6.41       |       4.6.43       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.36       |       4.6.43       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.36       |       4.6.41       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.32       |       4.6.43       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.32       |       4.6.41       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.32       |       4.6.34       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.28       |       4.6.43       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.28       |       4.6.41       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.28       |       4.6.34       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.28       |       4.6.32       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.26       |       4.6.43       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.26       |       4.6.41       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.26       |       4.6.34       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.26       |       4.6.32       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.25       |       4.6.43       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.25       |       4.6.41       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.25       |       4.6.34       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.25       |       4.6.32       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.24       |       4.6.43       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.24       |       4.6.41       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.24       |       4.6.34       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.24       |       4.6.32       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.23       |       4.6.43       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.23       |       4.6.41       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.23       |       4.6.34       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.23       |       4.6.32       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.23       |       4.6.28       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.23       |       4.6.24       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.18       |       4.6.43       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.18       |       4.6.41       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.18       |       4.6.34       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.18       |       4.6.32       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.18       |       4.6.28       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.18       |       4.6.24       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.18       |       4.6.23       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.13       |       4.6.43       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.13       |       4.6.41       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.13       |       4.6.34       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.13       |       4.6.32       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.13       |       4.6.28       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.13       |       4.6.24       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.13       |       4.6.23       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.13       |       4.6.18       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.12       |       4.6.43       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.12       |       4.6.41       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.12       |       4.6.34       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.12       |       4.6.32       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.12       |       4.6.28       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.12       |       4.6.24       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.12       |       4.6.23       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.12       |       4.6.18       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.12       |       4.6.13       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.9        |       4.6.43       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.9        |       4.6.41       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.9        |       4.6.34       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.9        |       4.6.32       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.9        |       4.6.28       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.9        |       4.6.24       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.9        |       4.6.23       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.9        |       4.6.18       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.9        |       4.6.13       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.9        |       4.6.12       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.8        |       4.6.43       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.8        |       4.6.41       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.8        |       4.6.34       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.8        |       4.6.32       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.8        |       4.6.28       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.8        |       4.6.24       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.8        |       4.6.23       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.8        |       4.6.18       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.8        |       4.6.13       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.8        |       4.6.12       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.8        |       4.6.9        | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.7        |       4.6.43       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.7        |       4.6.41       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.7        |       4.6.34       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.7        |       4.6.32       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.7        |       4.6.28       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.7        |       4.6.24       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.7        |       4.6.23       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.7        |       4.6.18       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.7        |       4.6.13       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.7        |       4.6.12       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.7        |       4.6.9        | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.7        |       4.6.8        | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.6        |       4.6.43       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.6        |       4.6.41       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.6        |       4.6.34       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.6        |       4.6.32       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.6        |       4.6.28       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.6        |       4.6.24       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.6        |       4.6.23       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.6        |       4.6.18       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.6        |       4.6.13       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.6        |       4.6.12       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.6        |       4.6.9        | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.6        |       4.6.8        | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.6.6        |       4.6.7        | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.23       |       4.6.43       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.23       |       4.6.41       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.23       |       4.6.34       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.23       |       4.6.32       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.23       |       4.6.28       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.23       |       4.6.24       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.23       |       4.6.23       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.23       |       4.6.18       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.21       |       4.6.43       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.21       |       4.6.41       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.21       |       4.6.34       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.21       |       4.6.32       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.21       |       4.6.28       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.21       |       4.6.24       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.21       |       4.6.23       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.21       |       4.6.18       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.21       |       4.6.13       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.21       |       4.6.12       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.21       |       4.6.9        | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.21       |       4.6.8        | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.21       |       4.6.7        | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.21       |       4.6.6        | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.20       |       4.6.43       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.20       |       4.6.41       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.20       |       4.6.34       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.20       |       4.6.32       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.20       |       4.6.28       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.20       |       4.6.24       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.20       |       4.6.23       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.20       |       4.6.18       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.20       |       4.6.13       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.20       |       4.6.12       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.20       |       4.6.9        | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.20       |       4.6.8        | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.20       |       4.6.7        | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.20       |       4.6.6        | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.24       |       4.6.43       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.24       |       4.6.41       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.24       |       4.6.34       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.24       |       4.6.32       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.24       |       4.6.28       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.24       |       4.6.24       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.24       |       4.6.23       | :white_check_mark: |

**4.5.x**

| **Source Version** | **Target Version** |    **Support**     |
| :----------------: | :----------------: | :----------------: |
|       4.5.21       |       4.5.23       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.20       |       4.5.23       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.20       |       4.5.21       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.15       |       4.5.23       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.15       |       4.5.21       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.15       |       4.5.20       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.11       |       4.5.23       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.11       |       4.5.21       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.11       |       4.5.20       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.11       |       4.5.15       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.8        |       4.5.23       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.8        |       4.5.21       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.8        |       4.5.20       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.8        |       4.5.15       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.8        |       4.5.11       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.4        |       4.5.23       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.4        |       4.5.21       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.4        |       4.5.20       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.4        |       4.5.15       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.4        |       4.5.11       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.5.4        |       4.5.8        | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.24       |       4.5.23       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.20       |       4.5.23       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.20       |       4.5.21       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.20       |       4.5.20       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.20       |       4.5.15       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.20       |       4.5.11       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.20       |       4.5.8        | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.20       |       4.5.4        | :white_check_mark: |

**4.4.x**

| **Source Version** | **Target Version** |    **Support**     |
| :----------------: | :----------------: | :----------------: |
|       4.4.20       |       4.4.23       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.18       |       4.4.23       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.18       |       4.4.20       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.14       |       4.4.23       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.14       |       4.4.20       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.14       |       4.4.18       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.11       |       4.4.23       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.11       |       4.4.20       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.11       |       4.4.18       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.11       |       4.4.14       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.6        |       4.4.23       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.6        |       4.4.20       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.6        |       4.4.18       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.6        |       4.4.14       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.4.6        |       4.4.11       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.3.6        |       4.4.23       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.3.6        |       4.4.20       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.3.6        |       4.4.18       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.3.6        |       4.4.14       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.3.6        |       4.4.11       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.3.6        |       4.4.6        | :white_check_mark: |

**4.3.x and Prior**

| **Source Version** | **Target Version** |    **Support**     |
| :----------------: | :----------------: | :----------------: |
|       4.2.13       |       4.3.6        | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.2.7        |       4.2.13       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.1.x        |       4.3.6        |        :x:         |
|       4.1.12       |       4.2.7        | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.1.12       |       4.1.13       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.1.7        |       4.2.7        | :white_check_mark: |
