docs/docs-content/tenant-settings/tenant-settings.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: "Tenant Administration"
title: "Tenant Administration"
description:
  "Familiarize yourself with the available Tenant settings and how you can control the behavior of your tenant."
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_custom_props:
  icon: "gears"
tags: ["tenant-administration"]
---

In Palette, the _tenant admin_ role can access tenant settings. This role is the equivalent of a system administrator.
As a tenant admin, you can configure Palette and its features to behave in a manner that best fits your organization and
its users.

<br />

:::info

To learn more about the permissions and privileges available to the tenant role, refer to the
[Tenant Scope Roles and Permissions](../user-management/palette-rbac/tenant-scope-roles-permissions.md) reference page.

:::

Use the following resources to become familiar with the available tenant settings and how to change the tenant settings.

## Resources

- [Add Tenant-Level Registry](add-registry.md)

- [API Key Management](api-key-management.md)

- [Login Banner](login-banner.md)

<br />

Commit message:

docs: DOC-461 Projects Refactor (#2519)
* docs: DOC-461

* chore: unlist k8s hub

* Update docs/docs-content/tenant-settings/projects/projects.md

* Optimised images with calibre/image-actions

* Optimised images with calibre/image-actions

* Optimised images with calibre/image-actions

* chore: improve harsh CLS

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Lenny Chen <55669665+lennessyy@users.noreply.github.com>

* chore: updated lanaguage

---------

Co-authored-by: vault-token-factory-spectrocloud[bot] <133815545+vault-token-factory-spectrocloud[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Lenny Chen <55669665+lennessyy@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/docs-content/tenant-settings/tenant-settings.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: "Tenant Administration"
title: "Tenant Administration"
description:
  "Familiarize yourself with the available Tenant settings and how you can control the behavior of your tenant."
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_custom_props:
  icon: "gears"
tags: ["tenant-administration"]
---

In Palette, the _tenant admin_ role can access tenant settings. This role is the equivalent of a system administrator.
As a tenant admin, you can configure Palette and its features to behave in a manner that best fits your organization and
its users.

<br />

:::info

To learn more about the permissions and privileges available to the tenant role, refer to the
[Tenant Scope Roles and Permissions](../user-management/palette-rbac/tenant-scope-roles-permissions.md) reference page.

:::

## Projects

A **Project** helps you organize the clusters and cluster resources in a logical grouping. The resources that are
created within a project are scoped to that project and not available to other projects. You can also assign users and
teams with specific roles to specific projects. Check out the [Projects](./projects/projects.md) page to learn more.

Use the following resources to become familiar with the available tenant settings and how to change the tenant settings.

## Resources

- [Add Tenant-Level Registry](add-registry.md)

- [API Key Management](api-key-management.md)

- [Login Banner](login-banner.md)

- [Projects](./projects/projects.md)
