_partials/self-hosted/management-appliance/_upload-third-party-packs-validate.mdx, before:

---
partial_category: self-hosted
partial_name: upload-third-party-packs-validate
---

<Tabs groupId="registry-type">

<TabItem value="internal-zot-registry" label="Internal Zot Registry">

1. Log in to the Local UI of the leader host of the {props.version} management cluster. By default, Local UI is accessible at `https://<node-ip>:5080`. Replace `<node-ip>` with the IP address of the leader host.

2. From the left main menu, click **Content**.

3. Enter the filename of each Third Party pack in the **Filter by name** search bar. The packs should appear in the table.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="external-registry" label="External Registry">

1. List the packs uploaded to your external registry using the Palette CLI. Replace `<registry-dns-or-ip>` with the DNS/IP address of your registry and `<registry-port>` with the port number of your registry. If you have changed the base content path from the default, replace `spectro-content` with the correct content path.

   If you are using custom TLS certificates or choosing to skip TLS, use the appropriate flags as shown in the following examples.

   <Tabs groupId="tls-palette-cli">

   <TabItem label="Custom TLS Certificate" value="custom-tls-certificate">

   ```shell
   palette content list \
   --repo <registry-dns-or-ip>:<registry-port>/spectro-content \
   --ca-cert <path-to-ca-cert> \
   --tls-cert <path-to-tls-cert> \
   --tls-key <path-to-tls-key>
   ```

   </TabItem>

   <TabItem label="Skip TLS" value="skip-tls">

   ```shell
   palette content list \
   --repo <registry-dns-or-ip>:<registry-port>/spectro-content \
   --insecure
   ```

   </TabItem>

   </Tabs>

2. Check that the Third Party packs you uploaded are listed in the output as a repository.

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

Commit message:

docs: adjust to tested validation steps

_partials/self-hosted/management-appliance/_upload-third-party-packs-validate.mdx, after:

---
partial_category: self-hosted
partial_name: upload-third-party-packs-validate
---

<Tabs groupId="registry-type">

<TabItem value="internal-zot-registry" label="Internal Zot Registry">

1. Log in to the Local UI of the leader host of the {props.version} management cluster. By default, Local UI is accessible at `https://<node-ip>:5080`. Replace `<node-ip>` with the IP address of the leader host.

2. From the left main menu, click **Content**.

3. Enter the filename of each Third Party pack in the **Filter by name** search bar. The packs should appear in the table.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="external-registry" label="External Registry">

1. Check that the packs have been successfully uploaded to your external registry using the Palette CLI. Replace `<registry-dns-or-ip>` with the DNS/IP address of your registry, `<registry-port>` with the port number of your registry (if applicable), and `<image-repository>` with the name of the image repository. If you have changed the base content path from the default, replace `spectro-content` with the correct content path.

   If you are using custom TLS certificates or choosing to skip TLS, use the appropriate flags as shown in the following examples.

   <Tabs groupId="tls-palette-cli">

   <TabItem label="Custom TLS Certificate" value="custom-tls-certificate">

   ```shell
   palette content list \
   --repo <registry-dns-or-ip>:<registry-port>/spectro-content/<image-repository> \
   --ca-cert <path-to-ca-cert> \
   --tls-cert <path-to-tls-cert> \
   --tls-key <path-to-tls-key>
   ```

   </TabItem>

   <TabItem label="Skip TLS" value="skip-tls">

   ```shell
   palette content list \
   --repo <registry-dns-or-ip>:<registry-port>/spectro-content/<image-repository> \
   --insecure
   ```

   </TabItem>

   </Tabs>

2. Check that the Third Party images you uploaded are listed in the output as repositories with version tags.

   ```shell hideClipboard title="Example command"
   palette content list \
   --repo external.registry.com/spectro-content/sonobuoy/sonobuoy
   ```

   ```shell hideClipboard title="Example output"
   Listing bundles
   harbor.teams.spectrocloud.com/docs-private/sonobuoy/sonobuoy:v0.57.1
   harbor.teams.spectrocloud.com/docs-private/sonobuoy/sonobuoy:v0.57.2
   ```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>
