_partials/self-hosted/management-appliance/_upload-third-party-packs-prereqs.mdx, before:

---
partial_category: self-hosted
partial_name: upload-third-party-packs-prereqs
---

- Access to the [Artifact Studio](https://artifact-studio.spectrocloud.com/) to download the Third Party packs.

- If using the internal Zot registry, ensure you have access to the Local UI of the leader node of the {props.version} management cluster. Also, verify that your local machine can access the Local UI, as airgapped environments may have strict network policies preventing direct access.

  - (Optional) The Palette CLI installed on your local machine if you prefer to use the command line for uploading packs. Refer to the <VersionedLink text="Palette CLI" url="/automation/palette-cli"/> guide for installation instructions.

- If using an external registry, the Palette CLI must be installed on your local machine to upload the content to the external registry. Refer to the <VersionedLink text="Palette CLI" url="/automation/palette-cli"/> guide for installation instructions.

  - Ensure your local machine has network access to the external registry server and you have the necessary permissions to push images to the registry.

Commit message:

docs: component updates week 39 DOC-2260 PAC-3230 (#8230)
* docs: component updates week 39 DOC-2260

* docs: add providers

* docs: wording updates

* DOC-2271 - Login requirement for Artifact Studio (#8246)

* docs: Login requirements for Artifact Studio

* chore: attempt to trigger Netlify build

* docs: Apply suggestions from code review

* ci: auto-formatting prettier issues

* docs: Correct admonition formatting

* ci: auto-formatting prettier issues

* docs: update components week 39

* Update docs/docs-content/release-notes/release-notes.md

Co-authored-by: Amanda Churi Filanowski <amanda.filanowski@spectrocloud.com>

* Update docs/docs-content/release-notes/release-notes.md

Co-authored-by: Amanda Churi Filanowski <amanda.filanowski@spectrocloud.com>

* Update docs/docs-content/release-notes/release-notes.md

Co-authored-by: Amanda Churi Filanowski <amanda.filanowski@spectrocloud.com>

* docs: formatting

* Update docs/docs-content/release-notes/release-notes.md

---------

Co-authored-by: Ben Radstone <56587332+benradstone@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Amanda Churi Filanowski <amanda.filanowski@spectrocloud.com>
(cherry picked from commit 567ef3d130c76e2df518505dc3063cee9ea32184)

_partials/self-hosted/management-appliance/_upload-third-party-packs-prereqs.mdx, after:

---
partial_category: self-hosted
partial_name: upload-third-party-packs-prereqs
---

- Access to the [Artifact Studio](https://artifact-studio.spectrocloud.com/) to download the Third Party packs.

  :::tip

  If you do not have access to Artifact Studio, contact your Spectro Cloud representative or [open a support ticket](https://support.spectrocloud.com/).

  :::

- If using the internal Zot registry, ensure you have access to the Local UI of the leader node of the {props.version} management cluster. Also, verify that your local machine can access the Local UI, as airgapped environments may have strict network policies preventing direct access.

  - (Optional) The Palette CLI installed on your local machine if you prefer to use the command line for uploading packs. Refer to the <VersionedLink text="Palette CLI" url="/automation/palette-cli"/> guide for installation instructions.

- If using an external registry, the Palette CLI must be installed on your local machine to upload the content to the external registry. Refer to the <VersionedLink text="Palette CLI" url="/automation/palette-cli"/> guide for installation instructions.

  - Ensure your local machine has network access to the external registry server and you have the necessary permissions to push images to the registry.
