docs/docs-content/clusters/edge/site-deployment/site-installation/cluster-deployment.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: "Create Cluster Definition"
title: "Create Cluster Definition"
description: "Define your Edge cluster using the Edge hosts that are registered and available."
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 30
tags: ["edge"]
---

To complete the Edge Installation process, an Edge host must become a member of a host cluster. You can add an Edge host
to an existing host cluster of type Edge Native, or you can create a new host cluster for Edge hosts and make the Edge
host a member.

Select the workflow that best fits your needs.

- [Create an Edge Native Host Cluster](#create-an-edge-native-host-cluster)
- [Add an Edge Host to a Host Cluster](#add-an-edge-host-to-a-host-cluster)

## Create an Edge Native Host Cluster

Use the following steps to create a new host cluster so that you can add Edge hosts to the node pools.

### Limitations

- In a multi-node cluster with PXK-E as its Kubernetes layer, you cannot change custom Network Interface Card (NIC).
  When you add an Edge host to such a cluster, leave the NIC field as its default value.

### Prerequisites

- A registered Edge host.

### Create Cluster

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com).

2. Navigate to the left **Main Menu** and select **Clusters**.

3. Click on **Add New Cluster**.

4. Choose **Edge Native** for the cluster type and click **Start Edge Native Configuration**.

5. Give the cluster a name, description, and tags. Click on **Next**.

6. Select a cluster profile. If you don't have a cluster profile for Edge Native, refer to the
   [Create Edge Native Cluster Profile](../model-profile.md) guide. Click on **Next** after you have selected a cluster
   profile.

7. Review your cluster profile values and make changes as needed. Click on **Next**.

8. Provide the host cluster with the Virtual IP (VIP) address used by the physical site. Ensure that this VIP is not in
   a CIDR range that cannot routed through a proxy. In addition, ensure that this VIP does not overlap with any IP
   address already used by other hosts in your network, including your Edge hosts.

You can also select any SSH keys in case you need to remote into the host cluster. You can also provide a list of
Network Time Protocol (NTP) servers. Click on **Next**.

9. The node configuration page is where you can specify what Edge hosts make up the host cluster. Assign Edge hosts to
   the **master-pool** and the **worker-pool**. When you have completed configuring the node pools, click on **Next**.

10. (Optional) When you assign Edge hosts to node pools, you can optionally specify a static IP address for each Edge
    host. If you want to specify a static IP, toggle on **Static IP** and provide the following information:

| **Field**       | **Description**                                                                                                                     |
| --------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| IP address      | The static IP address assigned to your Edge host. This should be unique within your network.                                        |
| Default gateway | The IP address of the default gateway for your cluster network. This gateway routes traffic from your cluster to external networks. |
| Subnet mask     | The subnet mask of your cluster network. This defines the range of IP addresses within your cluster network.                        |
| DNS server      | The IP address of the DNS server your cluster uses for domain resolution.                                                           |

If certain network information is already available, the corresponding fields will be pre-populated.

11. (Optional) When you assign an Edge host to a node pool, if your Edge host has more than one NIC, you can optionally
    specify which Network Interface Controller (NIC) the Edge host will use to communicate with the cluster. When you
    select an Edge host, Palette displays a dropdown of all NICs present on the Edge host.

If the NIC is configured on the Edge host network, an IP address is displayed next to the name of the NIC. If the NIC is
not configured on the Edge host network, you can specify its IP address, default gateway, subnet mask, as well as DNS
server to configure it.

If you choose to change the default NIC used by your nodes in the master node pool, you need to make sure all the NICs
in the master node pool share the same name. You also must make corresponding changes in the Kubernetes layer and the
Container Network Interface (CNI) layer.

In the Kubernetes layer, enter a new parameter `cluster.kubevipArgs.vip_interface` and set its value to the name of the
NIC used by your master nodes. For example, if the NIC used by the nodes in your master pool is named `ens32`, add the
following two lines.

```yaml {3}
cluster:
 kubevipArgs:
   vip_interface: "ens32"
```

In the CNI layer, depending on which CNI pack you choose for your cluster profile, you need to make changes in the
following locations.

  <Tabs>
  <TabItem value="calico" label="Calico">
  
  In the Calico pack YAML file default template, uncomment `manifests.calico.env.calicoNode.IP_AUTODETECTION_METHOD` and set its value to `interface=INTERFACE_NAME`. Replace `INTERFACE_NAME` with the name of the NIC in your master node pool. For example, set `IP_AUTODETECTION_METHOD` to `"interface=eno32"` if the NIC name of the nodes in your master pool is `eno32`. 
  
  ```yaml {11}
  manifests:
      calico:
          ...
          env:
          # Additional env variables for calico-node
          calicoNode:
              #IPV6: "autodetect"
              #FELIX_IPV6SUPPORT: "true"
              #CALICO_IPV6POOL_NAT_OUTGOING: "true"
              #CALICO_IPV4POOL_CIDR: "192.168.0.0/16"
              IP_AUTODETECTION_METHOD: "interface=eno32"
  ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="flannel" label="Flannel">

In the Flannel pack YAML file, add a line `- "--iface=INTERFACE_NAME"` in the default template under
`charts.flannel.args`. Replace `INTERFACE_NAME` with the name of the NIC. For example, add the line `- "--iface=eno32`
if the NIC name of your master nodes is `eno32`.

```yaml {8}
charts:
    flannel:
        ...
        # flannel command arguments
        args:
        - "--ip-masq"
        - "--kube-subnet-mgr"
        - "--iface=eno32"
```

  </TabItem>
  
  <TabItem value="cilium" label="Cilium">
  You do not need to make any adjustments to the Cilium pack.
  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="other" label="Other">
  If you are using other CNIs, refer to the documentation of your selected CNI and configure it to make sure that it picks the right NIC on your Edge hosts. 
  </TabItem>
  </Tabs>

:::warning

After you create the cluster, you will not be able to change the IP address or NIC of your existing Edge hosts unless
you remove and re-add them back to the cluster.

:::

12. The Settings page is where you can configure a patching schedule, security scans, backup settings, and set up
    Role-Based Access Control (RBAC). Review the settings and make changes if needed. Click on **Validate**.

13. Review the settings summary and click on **Finish Configuration** to deploy the cluster.

After you create the cluster, the Palette Edge Host agent will start the installation process. You can track the
installation progress in Palette. The cluster overview page displays a summary of the progress. Use the _Events_ tab to
review detailed logs.

### Validate

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com).

2. Navigate to the left **Main Menu** and select **Clusters**.

3. Select the host cluster you created to view its details page.

4. Review the **Cluster Status**. Ensure the **Cluster Status** field displays **Running**.

You can also use the command `kubectl get nodes` to review the status of all nodes in the cluster. Check out the
[Access Cluster with CLI](../../../cluster-management/palette-webctl.md) guide to learn how to use `kubectl` with a host
cluster.

## Add an Edge Host to a Host Cluster

You can add Edge hosts to the node pool of an existing host cluster. Use the following steps to add the Edge host to the
node pool.

### Limitations

- In a multi-node cluster with [PXK-E](../../../../integrations/kubernetes-edge.md) as its Kubernetes layer, you cannot
  change custom Network Interface Card (NIC). When you add an Edge host to such a cluster, leave the NIC field as its
  default value.

### Prerequisites

- A registered Edge host.

- A host cluster of type Edge Native.

:::warning

When adding a new Edge host to an existing cluster, ensure you are not creating a scenario where
[etcd](https://etcd.io/) could fail in establishing a quorum. Quorum failures typically result when there is an even
number of nodes. To learn more, check out the resource from the etcd documentation titled
[Why an odd number of cluster members](https://etcd.io/docs/v3.3/faq/#why-an-odd-number-of-cluster-members).

:::

### Add Edge Host to Node Pool

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com).

2. Navigate to the left **Main Menu** and select **Clusters**.

3. Use the **Cloud Types drop-down Menu** and select **Edge Native**.

4. Select the host cluster to add the registered Edge host.

5. Click on the **Nodes** tab.

6. Select the node pool to add the Edge host and click the **Edit** button.

7. Navigate to the **Edge Hosts** drop-down Menu and select your Edge host.

8. (Optional) When you select your Edge host, you can optionally specify a static IP address for the Edge host. If you
   want to specify a static IP, toggle on **Static IP** and provide the following information:

| **Field**       | **Description**                                                                                                                     |
| --------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| IP Address      | The static IP address assigned to your Edge host. This should be unique within your network.                                        |
| Default gateway | The IP address of the default gateway for your cluster network. This gateway routes traffic from your cluster to external networks. |
| Subnet mask     | The subnet mask of your cluster network. This defines the range of IP addresses within your cluster network.                        |
| DNS server      | The IP address of the DNS server your cluster uses for domain resolution.                                                           |

If certain network information is already available, the corresponding fields will be pre-populated.

9. (Optional) When you assign an Edge host to a node pool, if your Edge host has more than one NIC, you can optionally
   specify which Network Interface Controller (NIC) the Edge host will use to communicate with the cluster. When you
   select an Edge host, Palette displays a dropdown of all NICs present on the Edge host.

If the NIC is configured on the Edge host network, an IP address is displayed next to the name of the NIC. If the NIC is
not configured on the Edge host network, you can specify its IP address, default gateway, subnet mask, as well as DNS
server to configure it.

If you choose to change the default NIC used by your nodes, you need to make sure all the NICs in the master node pool
share the same name. You also must make corresponding changes in the Kubernetes layer and the CNI layer.

In the Kubernetes layer, enter a new parameter `cluster.kubevipArgs.vip_interface` and set its value to the name of the
NIC used by your master nodes. For example, if the NIC used by the nodes in your master pool is named `ens32`, add the
following two lines.

```yaml {2-3}
cluster:
 kubevipArgs:
   vip_interface: "ens32"
```

In the CNI layer, depending on which CNI pack you choose for your cluster profile, you need to make changes in the
following locations.

  <Tabs>
  <TabItem value="calico" label="Calico">
  
  In the Calico pack YAML file default template, uncomment `manifests.calico.env.calicoNode.IP_AUTODETECTION_METHOD` and set its value to `interface=INTERFACE_NAME`. Replace `INTERFACE_NAME` with the name of the NIC in your master node pool. For example, set `IP_AUTODETECTION_METHOD` to `"interface=eno32"` if the NIC name of the nodes in your master pool is `eno32`. 
  
  ```yaml {11}
  manifests:
      calico:
          ...
          env:
          # Additional env variables for calico-node
          calicoNode:
              #IPV6: "autodetect"
              #FELIX_IPV6SUPPORT: "true"
              #CALICO_IPV6POOL_NAT_OUTGOING: "true"
              #CALICO_IPV4POOL_CIDR: "192.168.0.0/16"
              IP_AUTODETECTION_METHOD: "interface=eno32"
  ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="flannel" label="Flannel">

In the Flannel pack YAML file, add a line `- "--iface=INTERFACE_NAME"` in the default template under
`charts.flannel.args`. Replace `INTERFACE_NAME` with the name of the NIC. For example, add the line `- "--iface=eno32`
if the NIC name of your master nodes is `eno32`.

```yaml {8}
charts:
    flannel:
        ...
        # flannel command arguments
        args:
        - "--ip-masq"
        - "--kube-subnet-mgr"
        - "--iface=eno32"
```

  </TabItem>
  
  <TabItem value="cilium" label="Cilium">
  You do not need to make any adjustments to the Cilium pack.
  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="other" label="Other">
  If you are using other CNIs, refer to the documentation of your selected CNI and configure it to make sure that it picks the right NIC on your Edge hosts. 
  </TabItem>
  </Tabs>

:::warning

After you add the Edge host to your cluster, you will not be able to change its IP address unless you remove and re-add
them back to the cluster.

:::

10. Confirm your changes.

The Palette Edge Host agent will start the installation process. You can track the installation progress in Palette. The
cluster overview page displays a summary of the progress. Use the **Events** tab to review detailed logs.

### Validate

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com).

2. Navigate to the left **Main Menu** and select **Clusters**.

3. Select the host cluster you created to view its details page.

4. Review the **Cluster Status**. Ensure the **Cluster Status** field displays **Running**.

You can also use the command `kubectl get nodes` to review the status of all nodes in the cluster. Check out the
[Access Cluster with CLI](../../../cluster-management/palette-webctl.md) to learn how to use `kubectl` with a host
cluster.

Commit message:

docs: remove master/slave DOC-1033 PEM-4404
(cherry picked from commit dbf675d7c4df3bb74c0fa3214e5e93ed9f13af7c)

docs/docs-content/clusters/edge/site-deployment/site-installation/cluster-deployment.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: "Create Cluster Definition"
title: "Create Cluster Definition"
description: "Define your Edge cluster using the Edge hosts that are registered and available."
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 30
tags: ["edge"]
---

To complete the Edge Installation process, an Edge host must become a member of a host cluster. You can add an Edge host
to an existing host cluster of type Edge Native, or you can create a new host cluster for Edge hosts and make the Edge
host a member.

Select the workflow that best fits your needs.

- [Create an Edge Native Host Cluster](#create-an-edge-native-host-cluster)
- [Add an Edge Host to a Host Cluster](#add-an-edge-host-to-a-host-cluster)

## Create an Edge Native Host Cluster

Use the following steps to create a new host cluster so that you can add Edge hosts to the node pools.

### Limitations

- In a multi-node cluster with PXK-E as its Kubernetes layer, you cannot change custom Network Interface Card (NIC).
  When you add an Edge host to such a cluster, leave the NIC field as its default value.

### Prerequisites

- A registered Edge host.

### Create Cluster

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com).

2. Navigate to the left **Main Menu** and select **Clusters**.

3. Click on **Add New Cluster**.

4. Choose **Edge Native** for the cluster type and click **Start Edge Native Configuration**.

5. Give the cluster a name, description, and tags. Click on **Next**.

6. Select a cluster profile. If you don't have a cluster profile for Edge Native, refer to the
   [Create Edge Native Cluster Profile](../model-profile.md) guide. Click on **Next** after you have selected a cluster
   profile.

7. Review your cluster profile values and make changes as needed. Click on **Next**.

8. Provide the host cluster with the Virtual IP (VIP) address used by the physical site. Ensure that this VIP is not in
   a CIDR range that cannot routed through a proxy. In addition, ensure that this VIP does not overlap with any IP
   address already used by other hosts in your network, including your Edge hosts.

You can also select any SSH keys in case you need to remote into the host cluster. You can also provide a list of
Network Time Protocol (NTP) servers. Click on **Next**.

9. The node configuration page is where you can specify what Edge hosts make up the host cluster. Assign Edge hosts to
   the **control-plane-pool** and the **worker-pool**. When you have completed configuring the node pools, click on
   **Next**.

10. (Optional) When you assign Edge hosts to node pools, you can optionally specify a static IP address for each Edge
    host. If you want to specify a static IP, toggle on **Static IP** and provide the following information:

| **Field**       | **Description**                                                                                                                     |
| --------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| IP address      | The static IP address assigned to your Edge host. This should be unique within your network.                                        |
| Default gateway | The IP address of the default gateway for your cluster network. This gateway routes traffic from your cluster to external networks. |
| Subnet mask     | The subnet mask of your cluster network. This defines the range of IP addresses within your cluster network.                        |
| DNS server      | The IP address of the DNS server your cluster uses for domain resolution.                                                           |

If certain network information is already available, the corresponding fields will be pre-populated.

11. (Optional) When you assign an Edge host to a node pool, if your Edge host has more than one NIC, you can optionally
    specify which Network Interface Controller (NIC) the Edge host will use to communicate with the cluster. When you
    select an Edge host, Palette displays a dropdown of all NICs present on the Edge host.

If the NIC is configured on the Edge host network, an IP address is displayed next to the name of the NIC. If the NIC is
not configured on the Edge host network, you can specify its IP address, default gateway, subnet mask, as well as DNS
server to configure it.

If you choose to change the default NIC used by your nodes in the control plane node pool, you need to make sure all the
NICs in the control plane node pool share the same name. You also must make corresponding changes in the Kubernetes
layer and the Container Network Interface (CNI) layer.

In the Kubernetes layer, enter a new parameter `cluster.kubevipArgs.vip_interface` and set its value to the name of the
NIC used by your control plane nodes. For example, if the NIC used by the nodes in your control plane pool is named
`ens32`, add the following two lines.

```yaml {3}
cluster:
 kubevipArgs:
   vip_interface: "ens32"
```

In the CNI layer, depending on which CNI pack you choose for your cluster profile, you need to make changes in the
following locations.

  <Tabs>
  <TabItem value="calico" label="Calico">
  
  In the Calico pack YAML file default template, uncomment `manifests.calico.env.calicoNode.IP_AUTODETECTION_METHOD` and set its value to `interface=INTERFACE_NAME`. Replace `INTERFACE_NAME` with the name of the NIC in your control plane node pool. For example, set `IP_AUTODETECTION_METHOD` to `"interface=eno32"` if the NIC name of the nodes in your control plane pool is `eno32`. 
  
  ```yaml {11}
  manifests:
      calico:
          ...
          env:
          # Additional env variables for calico-node
          calicoNode:
              #IPV6: "autodetect"
              #FELIX_IPV6SUPPORT: "true"
              #CALICO_IPV6POOL_NAT_OUTGOING: "true"
              #CALICO_IPV4POOL_CIDR: "192.168.0.0/16"
              IP_AUTODETECTION_METHOD: "interface=eno32"
  ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="flannel" label="Flannel">

In the Flannel pack YAML file, add a line `- "--iface=INTERFACE_NAME"` in the default template under
`charts.flannel.args`. Replace `INTERFACE_NAME` with the name of the NIC. For example, add the line `- "--iface=eno32`
if the NIC name of your control plane nodes is `eno32`.

```yaml {8}
charts:
    flannel:
        ...
        # flannel command arguments
        args:
        - "--ip-masq"
        - "--kube-subnet-mgr"
        - "--iface=eno32"
```

  </TabItem>
  
  <TabItem value="cilium" label="Cilium">
  You do not need to make any adjustments to the Cilium pack.
  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="other" label="Other">
  If you are using other CNIs, refer to the documentation of your selected CNI and configure it to make sure that it picks the right NIC on your Edge hosts. 
  </TabItem>
  </Tabs>

:::warning

After you create the cluster, you will not be able to change the IP address or NIC of your existing Edge hosts unless
you remove and re-add them back to the cluster.

:::

12. The Settings page is where you can configure a patching schedule, security scans, backup settings, and set up
    Role-Based Access Control (RBAC). Review the settings and make changes if needed. Click on **Validate**.

13. Review the settings summary and click on **Finish Configuration** to deploy the cluster.

After you create the cluster, the Palette Edge Host agent will start the installation process. You can track the
installation progress in Palette. The cluster overview page displays a summary of the progress. Use the _Events_ tab to
review detailed logs.

### Validate

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com).

2. Navigate to the left **Main Menu** and select **Clusters**.

3. Select the host cluster you created to view its details page.

4. Review the **Cluster Status**. Ensure the **Cluster Status** field displays **Running**.

You can also use the command `kubectl get nodes` to review the status of all nodes in the cluster. Check out the
[Access Cluster with CLI](../../../cluster-management/palette-webctl.md) guide to learn how to use `kubectl` with a host
cluster.

## Add an Edge Host to a Host Cluster

You can add Edge hosts to the node pool of an existing host cluster. Use the following steps to add the Edge host to the
node pool.

### Limitations

- In a multi-node cluster with [PXK-E](../../../../integrations/kubernetes-edge.md) as its Kubernetes layer, you cannot
  change custom Network Interface Card (NIC). When you add an Edge host to such a cluster, leave the NIC field as its
  default value.

### Prerequisites

- A registered Edge host.

- A host cluster of type Edge Native.

:::warning

When adding a new Edge host to an existing cluster, ensure you are not creating a scenario where
[etcd](https://etcd.io/) could fail in establishing a quorum. Quorum failures typically result when there is an even
number of nodes. To learn more, check out the resource from the etcd documentation titled
[Why an odd number of cluster members](https://etcd.io/docs/v3.3/faq/#why-an-odd-number-of-cluster-members).

:::

### Add Edge Host to Node Pool

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com).

2. Navigate to the left **Main Menu** and select **Clusters**.

3. Use the **Cloud Types drop-down Menu** and select **Edge Native**.

4. Select the host cluster to add the registered Edge host.

5. Click on the **Nodes** tab.

6. Select the node pool to add the Edge host and click the **Edit** button.

7. Navigate to the **Edge Hosts** drop-down Menu and select your Edge host.

8. (Optional) When you select your Edge host, you can optionally specify a static IP address for the Edge host. If you
   want to specify a static IP, toggle on **Static IP** and provide the following information:

| **Field**       | **Description**                                                                                                                     |
| --------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| IP Address      | The static IP address assigned to your Edge host. This should be unique within your network.                                        |
| Default gateway | The IP address of the default gateway for your cluster network. This gateway routes traffic from your cluster to external networks. |
| Subnet mask     | The subnet mask of your cluster network. This defines the range of IP addresses within your cluster network.                        |
| DNS server      | The IP address of the DNS server your cluster uses for domain resolution.                                                           |

If certain network information is already available, the corresponding fields will be pre-populated.

9. (Optional) When you assign an Edge host to a node pool, if your Edge host has more than one NIC, you can optionally
   specify which Network Interface Controller (NIC) the Edge host will use to communicate with the cluster. When you
   select an Edge host, Palette displays a dropdown of all NICs present on the Edge host.

If the NIC is configured on the Edge host network, an IP address is displayed next to the name of the NIC. If the NIC is
not configured on the Edge host network, you can specify its IP address, default gateway, subnet mask, as well as DNS
server to configure it.

If you choose to change the default NIC used by your nodes, you need to make sure all the NICs in the control plane node
pool share the same name. You also must make corresponding changes in the Kubernetes layer and the CNI layer.

In the Kubernetes layer, enter a new parameter `cluster.kubevipArgs.vip_interface` and set its value to the name of the
NIC used by your control plane nodes. For example, if the NIC used by the nodes in your control plane pool is named
`ens32`, add the following two lines.

```yaml {2-3}
cluster:
 kubevipArgs:
   vip_interface: "ens32"
```

In the CNI layer, depending on which CNI pack you choose for your cluster profile, you need to make changes in the
following locations.

  <Tabs>
  <TabItem value="calico" label="Calico">
  
  In the Calico pack YAML file default template, uncomment `manifests.calico.env.calicoNode.IP_AUTODETECTION_METHOD` and set its value to `interface=INTERFACE_NAME`. Replace `INTERFACE_NAME` with the name of the NIC in your control plane node pool. For example, set `IP_AUTODETECTION_METHOD` to `"interface=eno32"` if the NIC name of the nodes in your control plane pool is `eno32`. 
  
  ```yaml {11}
  manifests:
      calico:
          ...
          env:
          # Additional env variables for calico-node
          calicoNode:
              #IPV6: "autodetect"
              #FELIX_IPV6SUPPORT: "true"
              #CALICO_IPV6POOL_NAT_OUTGOING: "true"
              #CALICO_IPV4POOL_CIDR: "192.168.0.0/16"
              IP_AUTODETECTION_METHOD: "interface=eno32"
  ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="flannel" label="Flannel">

In the Flannel pack YAML file, add a line `- "--iface=INTERFACE_NAME"` in the default template under
`charts.flannel.args`. Replace `INTERFACE_NAME` with the name of the NIC. For example, add the line `- "--iface=eno32`
if the NIC name of your control plane nodes is `eno32`.

```yaml {8}
charts:
    flannel:
        ...
        # flannel command arguments
        args:
        - "--ip-masq"
        - "--kube-subnet-mgr"
        - "--iface=eno32"
```

  </TabItem>
  
  <TabItem value="cilium" label="Cilium">
  You do not need to make any adjustments to the Cilium pack.
  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="other" label="Other">
  If you are using other CNIs, refer to the documentation of your selected CNI and configure it to make sure that it picks the right NIC on your Edge hosts. 
  </TabItem>
  </Tabs>

:::warning

After you add the Edge host to your cluster, you will not be able to change its IP address unless you remove and re-add
them back to the cluster.

:::

10. Confirm your changes.

The Palette Edge Host agent will start the installation process. You can track the installation progress in Palette. The
cluster overview page displays a summary of the progress. Use the **Events** tab to review detailed logs.

### Validate

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com).

2. Navigate to the left **Main Menu** and select **Clusters**.

3. Select the host cluster you created to view its details page.

4. Review the **Cluster Status**. Ensure the **Cluster Status** field displays **Running**.

You can also use the command `kubectl get nodes` to review the status of all nodes in the cluster. Check out the
[Access Cluster with CLI](../../../cluster-management/palette-webctl.md) to learn how to use `kubectl` with a host
cluster.
