docs/docs-content/enterprise-version/system-management/backup-restore.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: "Backup and Restore"
title: "Backup and Restore"
description: "Learn how to enable backup and restore for self-hosted Palette."
icon: ""
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 50
tags: ["palette", "management", "self-hosted", "backup", "restore"]
keywords: ["self-hosted", "enterprise"]
---

You can enable backup and restore for your self-hosted Palette cluster to ensure that your Palette configuration data is backed up and can be restored in case of a disaster or a cluster failure. Palette supports two backup modes:

* File Transfer Protocol (FTP) - Send the backup data of your enterprise cluster to a dedicated FTP server. Refer to the [FTP](#ftp) section for more information.


* Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3) - Send the backup data of your enterprise cluster to object storage using AWS S3. Refer to the [S3](#s3) section for more information.


## FTP

Use the following instructions to configure FTP backup for your enterprise cluster.

### Prerequisites

* A dedicated FTP server with sufficient storage space to store the backup data.


* Credentials to access the FTP server.


### Instructions

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com) as an administrator. Refer to the [Access the System Console](../system-management/system-management.md#access-the-system-console) section for more information.


2. From the left **Main Menu**, select **Administration**.


3. Click on the **Backup/Restore** tab.


4. Select the **FTP** tab and fill out the following fields:

  | **Field** | **Description** |
  | --- | --- |
  | **Server** | The FTP server URL. |
  | **Directory** | The directory name for the backup storage. |
  | **Username** | The username to log in to the FTP server. |
  | **Password** | The password to log in to the FTP server. |
  | **Interval** | The number of days between backups. |
  | **Retention Period** | The number of days to retain the backup. |
  | **Hours of the day** | The time of the day to take the backup. The time of day is in UTC format. |


5. Click on **Validate** to validate the FTP server configuration. If the validation is successful, the **Save** button is enabled. Otherwise, an error message is displayed. In case of an error, correct verify the FTP server configuration and click on **Validate** again.


### Validate

Validation is part of the backup configuration wizard. You can verify that a backup initiates at the scheduled time and is successfully uploaded to the FTP server. 


## S3

Use the following instructions to configure S3 backup for your enterprise cluster.



### Prerequisites

- An Amazon Web Services (AWS) account.

- An AWS S3 bucket.

- An AWS IAM user with the following IAM permissions attached. Ensure you replace the bucket name in the `Resource` field with the name of your S3 bucket.

  ```json
    {
        "Version": "2012-10-17",
        "Statement": [
            {
                "Sid": "s3Permissions",
                "Effect": "Allow",
                "Action": [
                    "s3:GetObject",
                    "s3:DeleteObject",
                    "s3:PutObject",
                    "s3:AbortMultipartUpload",
                    "s3:ListMultipartUploadParts"
                ],
                "Resource": [
                    "arn:aws:s3:::REPLACE_ME_WITH_YOUR_BUCKET_NAME",
                    "arn:aws:s3:::REPLACE_ME_WITH_YOUR_BUCKET_NAME/*"
                ]
            },
            {
                "Sid": "ec2Permissions",
                "Effect": "Allow",
                "Action": [
                    "ec2:DescribeVolumes",
                    "ec2:DescribeSnapshots",
                    "ec2:CreateTags",
                    "ec2:CreateVolume",
                    "ec2:CreateSnapshot",
                    "ec2:DeleteSnapshot"
                ],
                "Resource": [
                    "*"
                ]
            }
        ]
    }
  ```


- Credentials to the IAM user. You need the AWS access key ID and the AWS secret access key.


### Instructions

1. Log into the Palette system console as an administrator. Refer to the [Access the System Console](../system-management/system-management.md#access-the-system-console) section for more information.


2. From the left **Main Menu**, select **Administration**.


3. Click on the **Backup/Restore** tab.


4. Select the **FTP**tab and fill out the following fields:

  | **Field** | **Description** |
  | --- | --- |
  | **Server** | The FTP server URL. |
  | **Directory** | The directory name for the backup storage. |
  | **Username** | The username to log in to the FTP server. |
  | **Password** | The password to log in to the FTP server. |
  | **Interval** | The number of days between backups. |
  | **Retention Period** | The number of days to retain the backup. |
  | **Hours of the day** | The time of the day to take the backup. The time of day is in UTC format. |


5. Click on **Validate** to validate the S3 configuration. If the validation is successful, the **Save** button is enabled. Otherwise, an error message is displayed. In case of an error, correct verify the S3 configuration and click on **Validate** again.

### Validate

Validation is part of the backup configuration wizard. You can validate a backup initiates at the scheduled time and successfully uploads to the S3 bucket.

Commit message:

docs: update backup-restore.md  DOC-937 (#1858)
* Update backup-restore.md

notify end users this is not supported currently for self-hosted installations using helm chart.

* docs: added warning DOC-937

---------

Co-authored-by: Karl Cardenas <karl@spectrocloud.com>

docs/docs-content/enterprise-version/system-management/backup-restore.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: "Backup and Restore"
title: "Backup and Restore"
description: "Learn how to enable backup and restore for self-hosted Palette."
icon: ""
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 50
tags: ["palette", "management", "self-hosted", "backup", "restore"]
keywords: ["self-hosted", "enterprise"]
---

You can enable backup and restore for your self-hosted Palette cluster to ensure that your Palette configuration data is backed up and can be restored in case of a disaster or a cluster failure. Palette supports two backup modes:

* File Transfer Protocol (FTP) - Send the backup data of your enterprise cluster to a dedicated FTP server. Refer to the [FTP](#ftp) section for more information.


* Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3) - Send the backup data of your enterprise cluster to object storage using AWS S3. Refer to the [S3](#s3) section for more information.

:::caution

Backup and Restore is not supported for self-hosted installations using the Helm Chart. 

:::

## FTP

Use the following instructions to configure FTP backup for your enterprise cluster.

### Prerequisites

* A dedicated FTP server with sufficient storage space to store the backup data.


* Credentials to access the FTP server.


### Instructions

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com) as an administrator. Refer to the [Access the System Console](../system-management/system-management.md#access-the-system-console) section for more information.


2. From the left **Main Menu**, select **Administration**.


3. Click on the **Backup/Restore** tab.


4. Select the **FTP** tab and fill out the following fields:

  | **Field** | **Description** |
  | --- | --- |
  | **Server** | The FTP server URL. |
  | **Directory** | The directory name for the backup storage. |
  | **Username** | The username to log in to the FTP server. |
  | **Password** | The password to log in to the FTP server. |
  | **Interval** | The number of days between backups. |
  | **Retention Period** | The number of days to retain the backup. |
  | **Hours of the day** | The time of the day to take the backup. The time of day is in UTC format. |


5. Click on **Validate** to validate the FTP server configuration. If the validation is successful, the **Save** button is enabled. Otherwise, an error message is displayed. In case of an error, correct verify the FTP server configuration and click on **Validate** again.


### Validate

Validation is part of the backup configuration wizard. You can verify that a backup initiates at the scheduled time and is successfully uploaded to the FTP server. 


## S3

Use the following instructions to configure S3 backup for your enterprise cluster.



### Prerequisites

- An Amazon Web Services (AWS) account.

- An AWS S3 bucket.

- An AWS IAM user with the following IAM permissions attached. Ensure you replace the bucket name in the `Resource` field with the name of your S3 bucket.

  ```json
    {
        "Version": "2012-10-17",
        "Statement": [
            {
                "Sid": "s3Permissions",
                "Effect": "Allow",
                "Action": [
                    "s3:GetObject",
                    "s3:DeleteObject",
                    "s3:PutObject",
                    "s3:AbortMultipartUpload",
                    "s3:ListMultipartUploadParts"
                ],
                "Resource": [
                    "arn:aws:s3:::REPLACE_ME_WITH_YOUR_BUCKET_NAME",
                    "arn:aws:s3:::REPLACE_ME_WITH_YOUR_BUCKET_NAME/*"
                ]
            },
            {
                "Sid": "ec2Permissions",
                "Effect": "Allow",
                "Action": [
                    "ec2:DescribeVolumes",
                    "ec2:DescribeSnapshots",
                    "ec2:CreateTags",
                    "ec2:CreateVolume",
                    "ec2:CreateSnapshot",
                    "ec2:DeleteSnapshot"
                ],
                "Resource": [
                    "*"
                ]
            }
        ]
    }
  ```


- Credentials to the IAM user. You need the AWS access key ID and the AWS secret access key.


### Instructions

1. Log into the Palette system console as an administrator. Refer to the [Access the System Console](../system-management/system-management.md#access-the-system-console) section for more information.


2. From the left **Main Menu**, select **Administration**.


3. Click on the **Backup/Restore** tab.


4. Select the **FTP**tab and fill out the following fields:

  | **Field** | **Description** |
  | --- | --- |
  | **Server** | The FTP server URL. |
  | **Directory** | The directory name for the backup storage. |
  | **Username** | The username to log in to the FTP server. |
  | **Password** | The password to log in to the FTP server. |
  | **Interval** | The number of days between backups. |
  | **Retention Period** | The number of days to retain the backup. |
  | **Hours of the day** | The time of the day to take the backup. The time of day is in UTC format. |


5. Click on **Validate** to validate the S3 configuration. If the validation is successful, the **Save** button is enabled. Otherwise, an error message is displayed. In case of an error, correct verify the S3 configuration and click on **Validate** again.

### Validate

Validation is part of the backup configuration wizard. You can validate a backup initiates at the scheduled time and successfully uploads to the S3 bucket.
