docs/docs-content/vm-management/vm-migration-assistant/vm-migration-assistant.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: "VM Migration Assistant"
title: "Virtual Machine Migration Assistant"
description:
  "Learn about how Palette's Virtual Machine (VM) Migration Assistant can be used to migrate VMs to your Virtual Machine
  Orchestrator cluster."
icon: " "
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 60
tags: ["vmo"]
---

During large scale Kubernetes adoptions, workloads are often rehosted or migrated instead of being redeployed from
scratch. This process allows system administrators to copy the application, together with its data, to a Kubernetes
cluster. However, the migration of Virtual Machines (VMs) can be time consuming if done manually, so it is often
automated with open source tools such as [Forklift](https://github.com/kubev2v/forklift).

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->

Palette provides the ability to migrate VMs from VMware vSphere to Virtual Machine Orchestrator (VMO) using the Virtual Machine Migration Assistant (VM Migration Assistant).
The <VersionedLink text="VM Migration Assistant" url="/integrations/packs/?pack=vm-migration-assistant"/> is an
add-on pack that can be added to your cluster profile and works alongside the
<VersionedLink text="VMO" url="/integrations/packs/?pack=virtual-machine-orchestrator" /> pack.

<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

## Limitations

- You can migrate only VMs hosted in VMware vSphere 7.0 or 8.0.

- You can migrate only VMs whose operating systems are present in the
  [`virt-v2v` supported guest systems](https://libguestfs.org/virt-v2v-support.1.html) list.

- Open Virtual Appliance (OVA) files are not supported as a provider type for migrations.

## Verified Migrations

The following table lists `virt-v2v` migration combinations verified by Spectro Cloud. Other combinations may be valid
but have not been verified.

| Operating System             | Cold Migration | Warm Migration |
| ---------------------------- | :------------: | :------------: |
| Fedora                       |       ✅       |       ❌       |
| Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9   |       ✅       |       ❌       |
| Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9.4 |       ✅       |       ❌       |
| Ubuntu                       |       ✅       |       ❌       |
| Windows Server 2019          |       ✅       |       ✅       |

## Resources

- [Create a VM Migration Assistant Cluster Profile](./create-vm-migration-assistant-profile.md)
- [Create Source Providers](./create-source-providers.md)
- [Create Migration Plans](./create-migration-plans.md)
- [Start Migration Plans](./start-migration-plans.md)
- [Cancel Active Migration Plans](./cancel-active-migration-plans.md)
- [Additional Configuration](./additional-configuration.md)

Commit message:

docs: Oracle Enterprise Linux support - VM Migration Assistant

docs/docs-content/vm-management/vm-migration-assistant/vm-migration-assistant.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: "VM Migration Assistant"
title: "Virtual Machine Migration Assistant"
description:
  "Learn about how Palette's Virtual Machine (VM) Migration Assistant can be used to migrate VMs to your Virtual Machine
  Orchestrator cluster."
icon: " "
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 60
tags: ["vmo"]
---

During large scale Kubernetes adoptions, workloads are often rehosted or migrated instead of being redeployed from
scratch. This process allows system administrators to copy the application, together with its data, to a Kubernetes
cluster. However, the migration of Virtual Machines (VMs) can be time consuming if done manually, so it is often
automated with open source tools such as [Forklift](https://github.com/kubev2v/forklift).

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->

Palette provides the ability to migrate VMs from VMware vSphere to Virtual Machine Orchestrator (VMO) using the Virtual Machine Migration Assistant (VM Migration Assistant).
The <VersionedLink text="VM Migration Assistant" url="/integrations/packs/?pack=vm-migration-assistant"/> is an
add-on pack that can be added to your cluster profile and works alongside the
<VersionedLink text="VMO" url="/integrations/packs/?pack=virtual-machine-orchestrator" /> pack.

<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

## Limitations

- You can migrate only VMs hosted in VMware vSphere 7.0 or 8.0.

- You can migrate only VMs whose operating systems are present in the
  [`virt-v2v` supported guest systems](https://libguestfs.org/virt-v2v-support.1.html) list.

- Open Virtual Appliance (OVA) files are not supported as a provider type for migrations.

## Verified Migrations

The following table lists `virt-v2v` migration combinations verified by Spectro Cloud. Other combinations may be valid
but have not been verified.

| Operating System             | Cold Migration | Warm Migration |
| ---------------------------- | :------------: | :------------: |
| Fedora                       |       ✅       |       ❌       |
| Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9   |       ✅       |       ❌       |
| Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9.4 |       ✅       |       ❌       |
| Ubuntu                       |       ✅       |       ❌       |
| Windows Server 2019          |       ✅       |       ✅       |

:::info

Oracle Enterprise Linux (OEL) is supported for cold and warm migrations, but has not been officially verified.

:::

## Resources

- [Create a VM Migration Assistant Cluster Profile](./create-vm-migration-assistant-profile.md)
- [Create Source Providers](./create-source-providers.md)
- [Create Migration Plans](./create-migration-plans.md)
- [Start Migration Plans](./start-migration-plans.md)
- [Cancel Active Migration Plans](./cancel-active-migration-plans.md)
- [Additional Configuration](./additional-configuration.md)
