docs/docs-content/clusters/edge/edge-management-console/host-management/reset-reboot.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: "Reboot, Shutdown, and Reset Edge Host"
title: "Reboot, Shutdown, and Reset Edge Host"
description: "Instructions for rebooting, shutting down, and resetting Edge Host to factory default."
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 32
tags: ["edge"]
---

You can reboot, shut down and reset an Edge host from Edge Management Console (EMC).

:::preview

:::

## Reboot Edge Host

You can reboot the Edge host from EMC. Doing so will cause you to temporarily lose access to EMC while the Edge host is
rebooting.

### Prerequisite

- Network access to EMC. Default port is 5080.

- Credentials to log in to the EMC. Any OS user can be used to log into EMC.

### Instructions

1. Log in to [EMC](./access-console.md#log-in-to-edge-management-console).

2. Under the upper-right **User Menu**, click on **Actions** to open the actions drop-down menu.

3. Click on **Reboot**.

4. Click **Confirm** to confirm the reboot.

### Validate

1. After confirming the reboot, you will be logged out of the current session immediately and the Edge host will reboot
   shortly afterwards.

2. Verify that the Edge host is rebooting by trying to visit EMC. Confirm that the address is unreachable.

3. After waiting a few minutes, try to access EMC again to confirm that the Edge host has rebooted successfully.

## Reset Edge Host to Factory Default

You can reset an Edge host to factory default from Edge Management Console (EMC). This restores the Edge host to the
state right after the [initial configuration](../../site-deployment/initial-setup.md) is completed in the terminal user
interface (TUI). Reset to factory default removes all workloads, content, and cluster definition from the Edge host.
This includes content bundles that were built into the ISO image during EdgeForge.

### Prerequisite

- Network access to EMC. Default port is 5080.

- Credentials to log in to the EMC. Any OS user can be used to log into EMC.

### Instructions

1. Log in to [EMC](./access-console.md#log-in-to-edge-management-console).

2. Under the upper-right **User Menu**, click on **Actions** to open the actions drop-down menu.

3. Click **Reset to factory default**.

4. Click **Confirm** to confirm.

### Validate

1. After confirming, a message displays that the Edge host is scheduled for a reset. EMC might become unresponsive for a
   few minutes afterwards.

2. After a few minutes, visit EMC in your browser and log in. Verify that all cluster data and content have been erased.

## Shut Down Edge Host

You can shut down the Edge host from EMC.

### Prerequisites

- Network access to EMC. Default port is 5080.

- Credentials to log in to the EMC. Any OS user can be used to log into EMC.

### Instructions

1. Log in to [EMC](./access-console.md#log-in-to-edge-management-console).

2. Under the upper-right **User Menu**, click on **Actions** to open the actions drop-down menu.

3. Click **Shutdown**.

4. Click **Confirm** to confirm shutting down the Edge host.

### Validate

1. After confirming, a message displays that the Edge host will shut down.

2. Verify that the Edge host has shut down by observing the hardware has stopped running. If your Edge host is a Virtual
   Machine (VM), observe on the VM platform that the VM is powered off.

Commit message:

add note about proxy setting after reset

docs/docs-content/clusters/edge/edge-management-console/host-management/reset-reboot.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: "Reboot, Shutdown, and Reset Edge Host"
title: "Reboot, Shutdown, and Reset Edge Host"
description: "Instructions for rebooting, shutting down, and resetting Edge Host to factory default."
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 32
tags: ["edge"]
---

You can reboot, shut down and reset an Edge host from Edge Management Console (EMC).

:::preview

:::

## Reboot Edge Host

You can reboot the Edge host from EMC. Doing so will cause you to temporarily lose access to EMC while the Edge host is
rebooting.

### Prerequisite

- Network access to EMC. Default port is 5080.

- Credentials to log in to the EMC. Any OS user can be used to log into EMC.

### Instructions

1. Log in to [EMC](./access-console.md#log-in-to-edge-management-console).

2. Under the upper-right **User Menu**, click on **Actions** to open the actions drop-down menu.

3. Click on **Reboot**.

4. Click **Confirm** to confirm the reboot.

### Validate

1. After confirming the reboot, you will be logged out of the current session immediately and the Edge host will reboot
   shortly afterwards.

2. Verify that the Edge host is rebooting by trying to visit EMC. Confirm that the address is unreachable.

3. After waiting a few minutes, try to access EMC again to confirm that the Edge host has rebooted successfully.

## Reset Edge Host to Factory Default

You can reset an Edge host to factory default from Edge Management Console (EMC). This restores the Edge host to the
state right after the [initial configuration](../../site-deployment/initial-setup.md) is completed in the terminal user
interface (TUI). Reset to factory default removes all workloads, content, and cluster definition from the Edge host.
This includes content bundles that were built into the ISO image during EdgeForge.

:::info

If you configured HTTP/HTTPS proxy through EMC, the proxy setting will be retained after the factory reset. For more
information about HTTP proxy, refer to [Configure HTTP Proxy](configure-proxy.md).

:::

### Prerequisite

- Network access to EMC. Default port is 5080.

- Credentials to log in to the EMC. Any OS user can be used to log into EMC.

### Instructions

1. Log in to [EMC](./access-console.md#log-in-to-edge-management-console).

2. Under the upper-right **User Menu**, click on **Actions** to open the actions drop-down menu.

3. Click **Reset to factory default**.

4. Click **Confirm** to confirm.

### Validate

1. After confirming, a message displays that the Edge host is scheduled for a reset. EMC might become unresponsive for a
   few minutes afterwards.

2. After a few minutes, visit EMC in your browser and log in. Verify that all cluster data and content have been erased.

## Shut Down Edge Host

You can shut down the Edge host from EMC.

### Prerequisites

- Network access to EMC. Default port is 5080.

- Credentials to log in to the EMC. Any OS user can be used to log into EMC.

### Instructions

1. Log in to [EMC](./access-console.md#log-in-to-edge-management-console).

2. Under the upper-right **User Menu**, click on **Actions** to open the actions drop-down menu.

3. Click **Shutdown**.

4. Click **Confirm** to confirm shutting down the Edge host.

### Validate

1. After confirming, a message displays that the Edge host will shut down.

2. Verify that the Edge host has shut down by observing the hardware has stopped running. If your Edge host is a Virtual
   Machine (VM), observe on the VM platform that the VM is powered off.
