docs/docs-content/enterprise-version/upgrade/upgrade.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: "Upgrade"
title: "Upgrade"
description: "Spectro Cloud upgrade notes for specific Palette versions."
icon: ""
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 100
tags: ["palette", "self-hosted", "upgrade"]
keywords: ["self-hosted", "enterprise"]
---

This page offers links and reference information for upgrading self-hosted Palette instances. If you have questions or
concerns, [reach out to our support team](http://support.spectrocloud.io/).

## Supported Upgrade Paths

Refer to the following table for the self-hosted Palette upgrade paths that we currently support.

:::warning

Before upgrading Palette to a new major version, you must first update it to the latest minor version available.

If your setup includes a PCG or if the new Palette version updates Kubernetes, then, before each major or minor Palette
upgrade, you must [allow the PCG to upgrade automatically](../../clusters/pcg/manage-pcg/pcg-upgrade.md) and apply the
Kubernetes updates to your Enterprise Cluster Profile.

:::

| **Source Version** | **Target Version** |    **Support**     |
| :----------------: | :----------------: | :----------------: |
|       4.2.7        |       4.2.13       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.1.12       |       4.2.7        | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.1.7        |       4.2.7        | :white_check_mark: |

## Upgrade Guides

Refer to the respective guide for your self-hosted Palette setup.

- [Non-Airgap VMware](upgrade-vmware/non-airgap.md)
- [Airgap VMware](upgrade-vmware/airgap.md)
- [Non-Airgap Kubernetes](upgrade-k8s/non-airgap.md)
- [Airgap Kubernetes](upgrade-k8s/airgap.md)
- [Palette v.3.x](palette-3-x.md)

Commit message:

docs: Finish updating the K8s airgap and non-airgap guides; restructure to acommodate for dedicated upgrade notes

docs/docs-content/enterprise-version/upgrade/upgrade.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: "Upgrade"
title: "Upgrade"
description: "Spectro Cloud upgrade notes for specific Palette versions."
icon: ""
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 100
tags: ["palette", "self-hosted", "upgrade"]
keywords: ["self-hosted", "enterprise"]
---

This page offers links and reference information for upgrading self-hosted Palette instances. If you have questions or
concerns, [reach out to our support team](http://support.spectrocloud.io/).

## Supported Upgrade Paths

Refer to the following table for the self-hosted Palette upgrade paths that we currently support.

:::warning

Before upgrading Palette to a new major version, you must first update it to the latest minor version available.

If your setup includes a PCG or if the new Palette version updates Kubernetes, then, before each major or minor Palette
upgrade, you must [allow the PCG to upgrade automatically](../../clusters/pcg/manage-pcg/pcg-upgrade.md) and apply the
Kubernetes updates to your Enterprise Cluster Profile.

:::

| **Source Version** | **Target Version** |    **Support**     |
| :----------------: | :----------------: | :----------------: |
|       4.2.7        |       4.2.13       | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.1.12       |       4.2.7        | :white_check_mark: |
|       4.1.7        |       4.2.7        | :white_check_mark: |

## Upgrade Guides

Refer to the respective guide for guidance on upgrading your self-hosted Palette instance.

- [Upgrade Notes](upgrade-notes.md)
- [Non-Airgap VMware](upgrade-vmware/non-airgap.md)
- [Airgap VMware](upgrade-vmware/airgap.md)
- [Non-Airgap Kubernetes](upgrade-k8s/non-airgap.md)
- [Airgap Kubernetes](upgrade-k8s/airgap.md)
